ßß

There are two kinds of people in this life:
Those who walk into a room and say,

"Well, here Iam!"
And those who walk in and say,
"Ahh, there you are."
Contents

Introduction: How to Get Anything You
Least Have the Best Crack at
It!)

PART ONE: HOW TO INTRIGUE EVERYONEß
WITHOUT SAYING A WORD: YOU
ONLY HAVE TEN SECONDS TO SHOW
YOU'RE A SOMEBODY

1 How to Make Your Smile Magically
Different

2 How to Strike Everyone as Intelligent

3 How to Use Your Eyes to Make Someone
Fall in Love with You

4 How to Look Like a Big Winner
Wherever You Go

5 How to Win Their Heart by Responding
to Their "Inner Infant"

6 How to Make Someone Feel Like an Old
Friend at Once

7_How to Come Across as 100 Percent
Credible to Everyone

yy)
A Q &
Se ©»,
8 How to Read People Like You Have ESP
9 How to Make Sure You Don't Miss a
Single Beat

19 How to Enthrall 'Em with Your Choice
of Topic—Them!
PART TWO: HOW TO KNOW WHAT TO SAY

AFTER YOU SAY "HI"

20 How to Never Need to Wonder, "What
Do I Say Next?"
21 How to Get 'Em Happily Chatting (So
You Can Slip Away if You Want To!)
10 How to Start Great Small Talk
11 How to Sound Like You've Got a Super
Personality (No Matter What You're
Saying!)

22 How to Come Across as a_ Positive
Person
23. How to Always
Interesting to Say
12 How to Make People Want to Start a
Conversation with You

Have _ Something
13 How to Meet the People You Want to
Meet

PART THREE: HOW TO TALK LIKE A VIP

24 How to Find Out What They Do
14 How to Break into a Tight Crowd

(Without Even Asking!)
15 How to Make "Where Are You From?"
Sound Exciting

25 How to Know What to Say When They
Ask, "What Do You Do?"
16 How to Come Out a Winner Every Time

They Ask, "And What Do You Do?"

26 How to Sound Even Smarter Than You
Are
17_How to Introduce People Like the

27 How to Not Sound Anxious (Let Them
Discover Your Similarity)
Host(ess) with the Most(est)
18 How to  Resuscitate a
Conversation

28 How to Be a " You-Firstie" to Gain Their
Respect and Affection
Dying

29 How to Make Them Feel You "Don't
Smile at Just Anybody"
Enhance Your
Conversation

32 How to Banter Like the Big Shots Do
(Big Winners Tell It Like It Is)

33. How to Avoid the World's Worst
Conversational Habit

34 How to Give Them the Bad News (and
Have Them Like You All the More)

35 How to Respond When You Don't Want
to_Answer (and Wish They'd Shut the
Heck Up)

36 How to Talk to a Celebrity

37 How to Make Them Want to Thank You
PART FOUR: HOW TO BE AN INSIDER IN ANY

CROWD: WHAT ARE THEY ALL
TALKING ABOUT?

38 How to Be a Modern-Day Renaissance
Man or Woman

39 How to Sound Like You Know All About
Their Job or Hobby

40 How to Bare Their Hot Button
(Elementary Doc-Talk)

A oe
7
30 How to Avoid Sounding Like a Jerk
31 How to Use Motivational Speakers'
Techniques to

41 How to Secretly Learn About Their
Lives

42 How to Talk When You're in Other
Countries

Price" _(on
Anything You Buy)

43 How to Talk Them into Getting the
"Insider's

Practically

PART FIVE: HOW _ TO SOUND LIKE YOU'RE

PEAS IN A POD: "WHY, WE'RE JUST
ALIKE"

44 How to Make Them Feel You're of the
Same "Class"
Like "Family"

45 How to Make Them Feel That You're

46 How to Really Make It Clear to Them

47 How to Make Them Feel You Empathize
(Without Just Saying "Yep, Uh Huh,
Yeah")

48 How to Make Them Think You
See/Hear/Feel It Just the Way They Do

49 How to Make 'Em Think We (Instead of
You vs. Me)

50 How to Create _a Friendly "Private
Joke" with Them
@ AQ

a 7.

yy)

PART SIX: HOW TO DIFFERENTIATE THE 60 How to Sound More Exciting on the
POWER OF PRAISE FROM THE FOLLY Phone
OF FLATTERY

61 How to Sound Close (Even if You're

51 How to Compliment Someone (Without Hundreds of Miles Away)

Sounding Like You're Brownnosing) 62 How to Make 'Em Happy They Called

52 How to Be a "Carrier Pigeon" of Good You
Feelings 63 How to Sneak Past the Gatekeeper
53 How to Make 'Em Feel Your Admiration

"Just Slipped Out" 64_ How to Get What You Want on the

Phone from Big Shots

54 How to Win Their Hearts by Being an

"Undercover Complimenter" 65_How to Get What You Want—by

Timing!
55 How to Make 'Em Never Forget You

with a "Killer Compliment" 66 How to Impress Everyone with Your

Outgoing Voicemail Message
56 How to Make 'Em Smile with "Itty-

Bitty Boosters" 67 How to Get Them to Call You Back

68 How to Make the Gatekeeper Think

57 How to Praise with Perfect Timing You're Buddy-Buddy with the VIP

58 How to Make 'Em Want to Compliment

You 69 How to Make Them Say You Have

Super Sensitivity

59 How to Make a Loved One Feel You Are

" 7 4 "
THE Partner for Life 70 How to "Listen Between the Lines" on

the Phone

PART SEVEN: HOW _TO DIRECT DIAL THEIR

HEARTS PART EIGHT: HOW TO WORK A PARTY LIKE A

POLITICIAN WORKS A_ ROOM: THE
POLITICIAN'S SIX-POINT PARTY
CHECKLIST
@ AQ

yy)

a 7.

PART

71 How to Avoid the Most Common Party
Blooper

72__How to Make an _ Unforgettable
Entrance

73 How to Meet the People YOU Want to
Meet

74 How to Subliminally Lure People to You
at a Gathering

75 How to Make 'Em Feel Like a Movie
Star

76 How to Amaze Them with What You
Remember About Them

71_How to Make the Sale with Your
Eyeballs

NINE: HOW_TO BREAK THE MOST

TREACHEROUS _ GLASS _ CEILING OF
ALL: SOMETIMES PEOPLE _ ARE
TIGERS

78 How to Win Their Affection by
Overlooking Their Bloopers

79 How to Win Their Heart When Their
Tongue Is Faltering

80 How to Let 'Em Know "What's in It"
for Them

81 How to Make Them Want to Do Favors
for You

82 How to Ask for Favors (and Get Them!)

83. How to Know What Not to Say_at
Parties

84 How to Know What Not to Say _at
Dinner

85 How to Know What Not to Say in a
Chance Meeting

86 How to Prepare Them to Listen to You

87 How to Turn Their Anger Around (in
Three Sentences or Less)

88 How to Make 'Km Like You (Even
When You've Messed Up)

89 How to Trap a Rat with Class

90 How to Get Whatever You Want from
Service Personnel

91 How to Be a Leader in a Crowd, Not a
Follower

92 How to Make All the Right Moves

Notes
Introduction

How to Get Anything You Want
from Anybody (Well, at Least Have
the Best Crack at It!)

Have you ever admired those successful people who
seem to"have it all"? You see them chatting confidently
at business meetings or comfortably at social parties.
They're the ones with the best jobs, the nicest spouses,
the finest friends, the biggest bank accounts, or the most
fashionable zip codes.

But wait a minute! A lot of them aren't smarter than
you. They're not more educated than you. They're not
even better looking! So what is it? (Some people
suspect they inherited it. Others say they married it or
were just plain lucky. Tell them to think again.) What it
boils down to is their more skillful way of dealing with
fellow human beings.

You see, nobody gets to the top alone. Over the
years, people who seem to "have it all" have captured
the hearts and conquered the minds of hundreds of
others who helped boost them, rung by rung, to the top
of whatever corporate or social ladder they chose.

Wanna-bes wandering around at the foot of the
ladder often gaze up and grouse that the big boys and
big girls at the top are snobs. When big players don't
give them their friendship, love, or business, they call
them "cliquish" or accuse them of belonging to an "old-

Ds)
boy network." Some grumble they hit their heads
against a "glass ceiling."

The complaining Little Leaguers never realize the
rejection was their own fault. They'll never know they
blew the affair, the friendship, or the deal because of
their own communications fumbles. It's as though well-
liked people have a bag of tricks, a magic, or a Midas
touch that turns everything they do into success.

What's in their bag of tricks? You'll find a lot of
things: a substance that solidifies friendships, a
wizardry that wins minds, and a magic that makes
people fall in love with them. They also possess a
quality that makes bosses hire and then promote, a
characteristic that keeps clients coming back, and an
asset that makes customers buy from them and not the
competition. We all have a few of those tricks in our
bags, some more than others. Those with a whole lot of
them are big winners in life. How to Talk to Anyone
gives you ninety-two of these little tricks they use every
day so you, too, can play the game to perfection and get
whatever you want in life.

How the "Little Tricks" Were
Unveiled

Many years ago, a drama teacher, exasperated at my
bad acting in a college play, shouted, "No! No! Your
body is belying your words. Every tiny movement,
every body position," he howled, "divulges your private
thoughts. Your face can make seven thousand different
expressions, and each exposes precisely who you are

@ AQ

and what you are thinking at any particular moment."
Then he said something I'll never forget: "And your
body! The way you move is your autobiography in
motion."

How right he was! On the stage of real life, every
physical move you make subliminally tells everyone in
eyeshot the story of your life. Dogs hear sounds our ears
can't detect. Bats see shapes in the darkness that elude
our eyes. And people make moves that are beneath
human consciousness but have tremendous power to
attract or repel. Every smile, every frown, every syllable
you utter, or every arbitrary choice of word that passes
between your lips can draw others toward you or make
them want to run away.

Men—did your gut feeling ever tell you to jump ship
on a deal? Women—did your women's intuition make
you accept or reject an offer? On a conscious level, we
may not be aware of what the hunch is. But like the ear
of the dog or the eye of the bat, the elements that make
up subliminal sentiments are very real.

Imagine, please, two humans in a complex box wired
with circuits to record all the signals flowing between
the two. As many as ten thousand units of information
flow per second. "Probably the lifetime efforts of
roughly half the adult population of the United States
would be required to sort the units in one hour's
interaction between two subjects," a University of
Pennsylvania communications authority estimates.1

With the zillions of subtle actions and reactions

zapping back and forth between two human beings, can
we come up with concrete techniques to make our every

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
communication clear, confi-dent, credible, and
charismatic?

Determined to find the answer, I read practically
every book written on communications skills, charisma,
and chemistry between people. I explored hundreds of
studies conducted around the world on what qualities
made up leadership and credibility. Intrepid social
scientists left no stone unturned in their quest to find the
formula. For example, optimistic Chinese researchers,
hoping charisma might be in the diet, went so far as to
compare the relationship of personality type to the
catecholamine level in subjects' urine.2 Needless to say,
their thesis was soon shelved.

Dale Carnegie Was GREAT for
the Twentieth Century, but
This Is the Twenty-First

Most of the studies simply confirmed Dale Carnegie's
1936 classic, How to Win Friends and Influence
People.* His wisdom for the ages said success lay in
smiling, showing interest in other people, and making
them feel good about themselves. "That's no surprise," I
thought. It's as true today as it was more than sixty
years ago.

So if Dale Carnegie and hundreds of others since
offer the same astute advice, why do we need another
book telling us how to win friends and influence
people? Two mammoth reasons.

@ AQ

Reason One: Suppose a sage told you, "When in
China, speak Chinese," but gave you no language
lessons? Dale Carnegie and many communications
experts are like that sage. They tell us what to do but
not how to do it. In today's sophisticated world, it's not
enough to say "smile" or "give sincere compliments."
Cynical businesspeople today see more subtleties in
your smile, more complexities in your compliment.
Accomplished or attractive people are surrounded by
smiling sycophants feigning interest and fawning all
over them. Prospects are tired of salespeople who say,
"The suit looks great on you," when their fingers are
caressing cash register keys. Women are wary of suitors
who say, "You are beautiful," when the bedroom door is
in view.

Reason Two: The world is a very different place
than it was in 1936, and we need a new formula for
success. To find it, I observed the superstars of today. I
explored techniques used by top salespeople to close the
sale, speakers to convince, clergy to convert, performers
to engross, sex symbols to seduce, and athletes to win.

I found concrete building blocks to the elusive
qualities that lead to their success. Then I broke them
down into easily digestible, mnews-you-can-use
techniques. I gave each a name that will quickly come
to mind when you find yourself in a communications
conundrum. As I developed the techniques, I began
sharing them with audiences around the country.
Participants in my communications seminars gave me
their ideas. My clients, many of them CEOs of Fortune
500 companies, enthusiastically offered their
observations.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
When I was in the presence of the most successful
and beloved leaders, I analyzed their body language and
their facial expressions. I listened carefully to their
casual conversations, their timing, and their choice of
words. I watched as they dealt with their families,
friends, associates, and adversaries. Every time I
detected a little nip of magic in their communicating, I
asked them to pluck it out with tweezers and expose it
to the bright light of consciousness. We analyzed it
together, and I then turned it into an easy-to-do "little
trick" others could duplicate and profit from.

My findings and the strokes of some of those very
effective folks are in this book. Some are subtle. Some
are surprising. But all are achievable. When you master
them, everyone from new acquaintances to family,
friends, and business associates will happily open their
hearts, homes, companies, and even wallets to give you
whatever they can.

There's a bonus. As you sail through life with your
new communications skills, you'll look back and see
some very happy givers smiling in your wake.

@ AQ

PART ONE

HOW TO INTRIGUE
EVERYONE WITHOUT SAYING
A WORD

You Only Have Ten Seconds to
Show You're a Somebody

The exact moment that two humans lay eyes on each
other has awesome potency. The first sight of you is a
brilliant holograph. It burns its way into your new
acquaintance's eyes and can stay emblazoned in his or
her memory forever.

Artists are sometimes able to capture this quicksilver,
fleeting emotional response. My friend Robert
Grossman is an accomplished caricature artist who
draws regularly for Forbes, Newsweek, Sports
Illustrated, Rolling Stone, and _ other popular
publications. Bob has a unique gift for capturing not
only the physical appearance of his subjects, but for
zeroing in on the essence of their personalities. The
bodies and souls of hundreds of luminaries radiate from
his sketch pad. One glance at his caricatures of famous
people and you can actually "see" their personalities.

Sometimes at a party, Bob will do a quick sketch on
a cocktail napkin of a guest. Hovering over Bob's
shoulder, the onlookers gasp as they watch their friend's
image and essence materialize before their eyes. When
he's finished drawing, he puts his pen down and hands

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
the napkin to the subject. Often a puzzled look comes
over the subject's face. He or she usually mumbles some
politeness like, "Well, er, that's great. But it really isn't
me."

The crowd's convincing crescendo of "Oh yes it is!"
drowns the subject out and squelches any lingering
doubt. The confused subject is left to stare back at the
world's view of himself or herself in the napkin.

Once when I was visiting Bob's studio, I asked him
how he could capture people's personalities so well. He
said, "It's simple. I just look at them."

"No," I asked, "How do you capture their
personalities? Don't you have to do a lot of research
about their lifestyle, their history?"

"No, I told you, Leil, I just look at them."
"Huh?"

He went on to explain, "Almost every facet of
people's personalities is evident from their appearance,
their posture, the way they move. For instance . . ." he
said, calling me over to a file where he kept his
caricatures of political figures.

"See," Bob said, pointing to angles on various
presidential body parts, "here's the boyishness of
Clinton," showing me his half smile; "the awkwardness
of the elder George Bush," pointing to his shoulder
angle; "the charm of Reagan," noting the ex-president's
smiling eyes; "the shiftiness of Nixon," pointing to the
furtive tilt of his head. Digging a little deeper into his
file, he pulled out Franklin Delano Roosevelt and,
pointing to the nose high in the air, "Here's the pride of
FDR." It's all in the face and the body.

@ AQ

First impressions are indelible. Why? Because in our
fast-paced, information-overload world of multiple
stimuli bombarding us every second, people's heads are
spinning. They must form quick judgments to make
sense of the world and get on with what they have to do.
So, whenever people meet you, they take an instant
mental snapshot. That image of you becomes the data
they deal with for a very long time.

Your Body Shrieks Before Your
Lips Can Speak

Are their data accurate? Amazingly enough, yes. Even
before your lips part and the first syllable escapes, the
essence of YOU has already axed its way into their
brains. The way you look and the way you move is
more than 80 percent of someone's first impression of
you. Not one word need be spoken.

I've lived and worked in countries where I didn't
speak the native language. Yet, without one
understandable syllable spoken between us, the years
proved my first impressions were on target. Whenever I
met new colleagues, I could tell instantly how friendly
they felt toward me, how confident they were, and
approximately how much stature they had in the
company. I could sense, just from seeing them move,
who the heavyweights were and who were the
welterweights.

I have no extrasensory skill. You'd know, too. How?
Because before you have had time to process a rational
thought, you get a sixth sense about someone. Studies

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
have shown emotional reactions occur even before the
brain has had time to register what's causing that
reaction.* Thus the moment someone looks at you, he or
she experiences a massive hit, the impact of which lays
the groundwork for the entire relationship. Bob told me
he captures that first hit in creating his caricatures.

Deciding to pursue my own agenda for How to Talk
to Anyone, I asked, "Bob, if you wanted to portray
somebody really cool—you know, intelligent, strong,
charismatic, principled, fascinating, caring, interested in
other people... ."

"Easy," Bob interrupted. He knew precisely what I
was getting at. "Just give 'em great posture, a heads-up
look, a confident smile, and a direct gaze." It's the ideal
image for somebody who's a Somebody.

How to Look Like a Somebody

My friend Karen is a highly respected professional in
the home-furnishings business. Her husband is an
equally big name in the communications field. They
have two small sons.

Whenever Karen is at a home-furnishings industry
event, everyone pays deference to her. She's a very
important person in that world. Her colleagues at
conventions jostle for position just to be seen casually
chatting with her and, they hope, be photographed
rubbing elbows with her for industry bibles like Home
Furnishings Executive and Furniture World.

@ AQ

Yet, Karen complains, when she accompanies her
husband to communications functions, she might as
well be a nobody. When she takes her kids to school
functions, she's just another mom. She once asked me,
"Leil, how can I stand out from the crowd so people
who don't know me will approach me and at least
assume I'm an interesting person?" The techniques in
this section accomplish precisely that. When you use
the next nine techniques, you will come across as a
special person to everyone you meet. You will stand out
as a Somebody in whatever crowd you find yourself in,
even if it's not your crowd.

Let's start with your smile.

yy)

a 7.
1 How to Make Your Smile
Magically Different

In 1936, one of Dale Carnegie's six musts in How to
Win Friends and Influence People was SMILE! His
edict has been echoed each decade by practically every
communications guru who ever put pen to paper or
mouth to microphone. However, at the turn of the
millennium, it's high time we reexamine the role of the
smile in high-level human relations. When you dig
deeper into Dale's dictum, you'll find a 1936 quick
smile doesn't always work. Especially nowadays.

The old-fashioned instant grin carries no weight with
today's sophisticated crowd. Look at world leaders,
negotiators, and corporate giants. Not a smiling
sycophant among them. Key players in all walks of life
enrich their smile so, when it does erupt, it has more
potency and the world smiles with them.

Researchers have catalogued dozens of different
types of smiles. They range from the tight rubber band
of a trapped liar to the soft squishy smile of a tickled
infant. Some smiles are warm while others are cold.
There are real smiles and fake smiles. (You've seen
plenty of those plastered on the faces of friends who say
they're "delighted you decided to drop by," and
presidential candidates visiting your city who say
they're "thrilled to be in, uh... uh... .") Big winners
know their smile is one of their most powerful weapons,
so they've fine-tuned it for maximum impact.

Ds)
How to Fine-Tune Your Smile

Just last year, my old college friend Missy took over her
family business, a Midwestern company supplying
corrugated boxes to manufacturers. One day she called
saying she was coming to New York to court new
clients and she invited me to dinner with several of her
prospects. I was looking forward to once again seeing
my friend's quicksilver smile and hearing her
contagious laugh. Missy was an incurable giggler, and
that was part of her charm.

When her Dad passed away last year, she told me she
was taking over the business. I thought Missy's
personality was a little bubbly to be a CEO in a tough
business. But, hey, what do I know about the corrugated
box biz?

She, three of her potential clients, and I met in the
cocktail lounge of a midtown restaurant and, as we led
them into the dining room, Missy whispered in my ear,
"Please call me Melissa tonight."

"Of course," I winked back, "not many company
presidents are called Missy!" Soon after the maitre d'
seated us, I began noticing Melissa was a very different
woman from the giggling girl I'd known in college. She
was just as charming; she smiled as much as ever. Yet
something was different. I couldn't quite put my finger
on it.

Although she was still effervescent, I had the distinct
impression everything Melissa said was more insightful
and sincere. She was responding with genuine warmth
to her prospective clients, and I could tell they liked her,
too. I was thrilled because my friend was scoring a

@ AQ

knockout that night. By the end of the evening, Melissa
had three big new clients.

Afterward, alone with her in the cab, I said, "Missy,
you've really come a long way since you took over the
company. Your whole personality has developed, well, a
really cool, sharp corporate edge."

"Uh uh, only one thing has changed," she said.
"What's that?"

"My smile," she said.

"Your what?" I asked incredulously.

"My smile," she repeated as though I hadn't heard
her. "You see," she said, with a distant look coming into
her eyes, "when Dad got sick and knew in a few years
I'd have to take over the business, he sat me down and
had a life-changing conversation with me. I'll never
forget his words. Dad said, 'Missy, Honey, remember
that old song, "I Loves Ya, Honey, But Yer Feet's Too
Big"? Well, if you're going to make it big in the box
business, let me say, "I loves ya, Honey, but your
smile's too quick." '

"He then brought out a yellowed newspaper article
quoting a study he'd been saving to show me when the
time was right. It concerned women in business. The
study showed women who were slower to smile in
corporate life were perceived as more credible."

As Missy talked, I began to think about history-
making women like Margaret Thatcher, Indira Gandhi,
Golda Meir, Madeleine Albright, and other powerful
women of their ilk. Not one was known for her quick
smile.

yy)

a 7.
Missy continued, "The study went on to say a big,
warm smile is an asset. But only when it comes a little
slower, because then it has more credibility." From that
moment on, Missy explained, she gave clients and
business associates her big smile. However, she trained
her lips to erupt more slowly. Thus her smile appeared
more sincere and personalized for the recipient.

That was it! Missy's slower smile gave her
personality a richer, deeper, more sincere cachet.
Though the delay was less than a second, the recipients
of her beautiful big smile felt it was special and just for
them.

I decided to do more research on the smile. When
you're in the market for shoes, you begin to look at
everyone's feet. When you decide to change your
hairstyle, you look at everyone's haircut. Well, for
several months, I became a steady smile watcher. I
watched smiles on the street. I watched smiles on TV. I
watched the smiles of politicians, the clergy, corporate
giants, and world leaders. My findings? Amid the sea of
flashing teeth and parting lips, I discovered the people
perceived to have the most credibility and integrity
were just ever so slower to smile. Then, when they did,
their smiles seemed to seep into every crevice of their
faces and envelop them like a slow flood. Thus I call
the following technique "The Flooding Smile."

TECHNIQUE #1
THE FLOODING SMILE

@ AQ

Don't flash an immediate smile when you greet
someone, as though anyone who walked into your
line of sight would be the beneficiary. Instead, look
at the other person's face for a second. Pause. Soak
in their persona. Then let a big, warm, responsive
smile flood over your face and overflow into your
eyes. It will engulf the recipient like a warm wave.
The split-second delay convinces people your
flooding smile is genuine and only for them.

Let us now travel but a few inches north to two of the
most powerful communications tools you possess, your
eyes.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
2 How to Strike Everyone as
Intelligent and Insightful
by Using Your Eyes

It's only a slight exaggeration to say Helen of Troy
could launch ships with her eyes and Davy Crockett
could stare down a bear. Your eyes are personal
grenades that have the power to detonate people's
emotions. Just as martial arts masters register their fists
as lethal weapons, you can register your eyes as
psychological lethal weapons when you master the
following eye-contact techniques.

Beloved people in the game of life look beyond the
conventional wisdom that teaches "Keep good eye
contact." For one, they understand that to certain
suspicious or insecure people, intense eye contact can
be a virulent intrusion.

When I was growing up, my family had a Haitian
housekeeper whose fantasies were filled with witches,
warlocks, and black magic. Zola refused to be left alone
in a room with Louie, my Siamese cat. "Louie looks
right through me—sees my soul," she'd whisper to me
fearfully.

In some cultures, intense eye contact is sorcery. In
others, staring at someone can be threatening or
disrespectful. Realizing this, big players in the
international scene prefer to pack a book on cultural
body-language differences in their carry-on rather than

Ds)
a Berlitz phrase book. In our culture, however, big
winners know exaggerated eye contact can be extremely
advantageous, especially between the sexes. In
business, even when romance is not in the picture,
strong eye contact packs a powerful wallop between
men and women.

A Boston center conducted a study to learn the
precise effect. The researchers asked opposite-sex
individuals to have a two-minute casual conversation.
They tricked half their subjects into maintaining intense
eye contact by directing them to count the number of
times their partner blinked. They gave the other half of
the subjects no special eye-contact directions for the
chat.

When they questioned the subjects afterward, the
unsuspecting blinkers reported significantly higher
feelings of respect and fondness for their colleagues
who, unbeknownst to them, had simply been counting
their blinks.

I've experienced the closeness intense eye contact
engenders with a stranger firsthand. Once, when giving
a seminar to several hundred people, one woman's face
in the crowd caught my attention. The participant's
appearance was not particularly unique. Yet she became
the focus of my attention throughout my talk. Why?
Because not for one moment did she take her eyes off
my face. Even when I finished making a point and was
silent, her eyes stayed hungrily on my face. I sensed she
couldn't wait to savor the next insight to spout from my
lips. I loved it! Her concentration and obvious
fascination inspired me to remember stories and make
important points I'd long forgotten.

@ AQ

Right after my talk, I resolved to seek out this new
friend who was so enthralled by my speech. As people
were leaving the hall, I quickly sidled up behind my big
fan. "Excuse me," I said. My fan kept walking. "Excuse
me," I repeated a tad louder. My admirer didn't vary her
pace as she continued out the door. I followed her into
the corridor and tapped her shoulder gently. This time
she whirled around with a surprised look on her face. I
mumbled some excuse about my appreciating her
concentration on my talk and wanting to ask her a few
questions.

"Did you, uh, get much out of the seminar?" I
ventured.

"Well, not really," she answered candidly. "I had
difficulty understanding what you were saying because
you were walking around on the platform facing
different directions."

In a heartbeat, I understood. The woman was hearing
impaired. I did not captivate her as I had suspected. She
was not intrigued by my talk as I had hoped. The only
reason she kept her eyes glued on my face was because
she was struggling to read my lips!

Nevertheless, her eye contact had given me such
pleasure and inspiration during my talk that, tired as I
was, I asked her to join me for coffee. I spent the next
hour recapping my entire seminar just for her. Powerful
stuff this eye contact.

Make Your Eyes Look Even More
Intelligent

yy)

a 7.
There is yet another argument for intense eye contact.
In addition to awakening feelings of respect and
affection, maintaining strong eye contact gives you the
impression of being an intelligent and abstract thinker.
Because abstract thinkers integrate incoming data more
easily than concrete thinkers, they can continue looking
into someone's eyes even during the silences. Their
thought processes are not distracted by peering into

their partner's peepers.®

Back to our valiant psychologists. Yale researchers,
thinking they had the unswerving truth about eye
contact, conducted another study that, they assumed,
would confirm "the more eye contact, the more positive
feelings." This time, they directed subjects to deliver a
personally revealing monologue. They asked the
listeners to react with a sliding scale of eye contact
while their partners talked.

The results? All went as expected when women told
their personal stories to women. Increased eye contact
encouraged feelings of intimacy. But, whoops, it wasn't
so with the men. Some men felt hostile when stared at
too long by another man. Other men felt threatened.
Some few even suspected their partner was more
interested than he should be and wanted to slug him.

Your partner's emotional reaction to your profound
gaze has a biological base. When you look intently at
someone, it increases their heartbeat and shoots an
adrenalinelike substance gushing through their veins.7
This is the same physical reaction people have when
they start to fall in love. And when you consciously

increase your eye contact, even during normal business

@ AQ

or social interaction, people will feel they have
captivated you.

Men talking to women and women talking to men or
women: use the following technique, which I call
"Sticky Eyes," for the joy of the recipient—and for your
own advantage. (Guys, I'll have a man-to-man
modification of this technique for you in a moment.)

TECHNIQUE #2
STICKY EYES

Pretend your eyes are glued to your conversation
partner's with sticky warm taffy. Don't break eye
contact even after he or she has finished speaking.
When you must look away, do it ever so slowly,
reluctantly, stretching the gooey taffy until the tiny
string finally breaks.

What About Guys' Eyes?

Now gentlemen: when talking to men, you, too, can use
Sticky Eyes. Just make them a little less sticky when
discussing personal matters with other men, lest your
listener feel threatened or misinterpret your intentions.
But do increase your eye contact slightly more than
normal with men on day-to-day communications—and
a lot more when talking to women. It broadcasts a
visceral message of comprehension and respect.

I have a friend, Sammy, a salesman who unwittingly
comes across as an arrogant chap. He doesn't mean to,

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
but sometimes his brusque manner makes it look like
he's running roughshod over people's feelings.

Once while we were having dinner together in a
restaurant, I told him about the Sticky Eyes technique. I
guess he took it to heart. When the waiter came over,
Sammy, uncharacteristically, instead of bluntly blurting
out his order with his nose in the menu, looked at the
waiter. He smiled, gave his order for the appetizer, and
kept his eyes on the waiter's for an extra second before
looking down again at the menu to choose the main
dish. I can't tell you how different Sammy seemed to me
just then! He came across as a sensitive and caring man,
and all it took was two extra seconds of eye contact. I
saw the effect it had on the waiter, too. We received
exceptionally gracious service the rest of the evening.

A week later Sammy called me and said, "Leil,
Sticky Eyes has changed my life. I've been following it
to a T. With women, I make my eyes real sticky and
with men slightly sticky. And now everybody's treating
me with such deference. I think it's part of the reason
I've made more sales this week than all last month!"

If you deal with customers or clients in your
professional life, Sticky Eyes is a definite boon to your
bottom line. To most people in our culture, profound
eye contact signals trust, knowledge, an "I'm here for
you" attitude.

Let's carry Sticky Eyes one step further. Like a potent
medicine that has the power to kill or cure, the next eye-
contact technique has the potential to captivate or
annihilate.

@ AQ

3 How to Use Your Eyes to
Make Someone Fall in
Love with You

Now we haul in the heavy eyeball artillery: very sticky
eyes or superglue eyes. Let's call them "Epoxy Eyes."
Big bosses use Epoxy Eyes to evaluate employees.
Police investigators use Epoxy Eyes to intimidate
suspected criminals. And clever Romeos use Epoxy
Eyes to make women fall in love with them. (If
romance is your goal, Epoxy Eyes is a proven
aphrodisiac.)

The Epoxy Eyes technique takes at least three people
to pull off—-you, your target, and one other person.
Here's how it works. Usually, when you're chatting with
two or more people, you gaze at the person who is
speaking. However, the Epoxy Eyes technique suggests
you concentrate on the listener—your target—rather
than the speaker. This slightly disorients the target and
he or she silently asks, "Why is this person looking at
me instead of the speaker?" Your target senses you are
extremely interested in his or her reactions. This can be
beneficial in certain business situations when it is
appropriate that you judge the listener.

Human resources professionals often use Epoxy
Eyes, not as a technique, but because they are sincerely
interested in a prospective employee's reaction to
certain ideas being presented. Attorneys, bosses, police
investigators, psychologists, and others who must

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
examine subjects' reactions also use Epoxy Eyes for
analytical purposes.

When you use Epoxy Eyes, it sends out signals of
interest blended with complete confidence in yourself.
But because Epoxy Eyes puts you in a position of
evaluating or judging someone else, you must be
careful. Don't overdo it or you could come across as
arrogant and brazen.

TECHNIQUE #3
EPOXY EYES

This brazen technique packs a powerful punch.
Watch your target person even when someone else is
talking. No matter who is speaking, keep looking at
the man or woman you want to impact.

Sometimes using full Epoxy Eyes is too potent, so
here is a gentler, yet effective, form. Watch the speaker
but let your glance bounce to your target each time the
speaker finishes a point. This way Mr. or Ms. Target
still feels you are intrigued by his or her reactions, yet
there is relief from the intensity.

Use Epoxy Eyes to Push Their Erotic
Button

If romance is on the horizon, Epoxy Eyes transmits yet
another message. It says, "I can't take my eyes off you"
or "I only have eyes for you." Anthropologists have
dubbed eyes "the initial organ of romance" because

@ AQ

studies show intense eye contact plays havoc with our
heartbeat.® It also releases a druglike substance into our
nervous system called phenylethylamine. Since this is
the hormone detected in the human body during erotic
excitement, intense eye contact can be a turn-on.

Men, Epoxy Eyes is extremely effective on women—
if they find you attractive. The lady interprets her
nervous reaction to your untoward gaze as budding
infatuation. If she does not like you, however, your
Epoxy Eyes is downright obnoxious. (Never use Epoxy
Eyes on strangers in public settings or you could get
arrested!)

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
4 How to Look Like a Big
Winner Wherever You Go

Do you remember the lyrics to the old Shirley Bassey
song? "The minute you walked in the joint, I could see
you were a man of distinction—a real big spender.
Good looking, so refined. Say wouldn't you like to
know what's going on in my mind?"

The goal of this first section is not to make you look
like a real big spender. Rather it is to give you the
cachet of a real big Somebody the moment people lay
eyes on you. To that end, we now explore the most
important technique to make you look like a very
important person.

When the doctor smacks your knee with that nasty
little hammer, your foot jerks forward. Thus the phrase
knee-jerk reaction. Your body has another instinctive
reaction. When a big jolt of happiness hits your heart
and you feel like a winner, your head jerks up
automatically and you throw your shoulders back. A
smile frames your lips and softens your eyes.

This is the look winners have constantly. They stand
with assurance. They move with confidence. They smile
softly with pride. No doubt about it—good posture
symbolizes that you are a man or woman who is used to
being on top.

Obviously millions of mothers sticking their
knuckles between their kids' shoulder blades, and

Ds)
trillions of teachers telling students, "Stand up straight!"
hasn't done the trick. We are a nation of slouchers. We
need a technique more stern than teachers and more
persuasive than parents to make us stand like a
Somebody.

In one profession, perfect posture, perfect
equilibrium, perfect balance is not only desirable—it's a
matter of life and death. One false move, one slump of
the shoulders, one hangdog look, can mean curtains for
the high-wire acrobat.

I'll never forget the first time Mama took me to the
circus. When seven men and women raced into the
center ring, the crowd rose as though they were all
joined at the hips. They cheered with one thunderous
voice. Mama pressed her lips against my ear and
reverently whispered these were the Great Wallendas,
the only troupe in the world to perform the seven-
person pyramid without a net.

In an instant, the crowd became hushed. Not a cough
or a soda slurp was heard in the big top as Karl and
Herman Wallenda shouted cues in German to their
trusting relatives. The family meticulously and
majestically ascended into the position of a human
pyramid. They then balanced precariously on a thin
wire hundreds of feet above the hard dirt with no net
between them and sudden death. The vision was
unforgettable.

To me, equally unforgettable was the beauty and
grace of the seven Wallendas racing into the center of
the big top to take their bows. Each perfectly aligned—
head high, shoulders back—standing so tall it still didn't
seem like “ee were touching the ground. Every

@ AQ

muscle in their bodies defined pride, success, and their
joy of being alive. (Still!) Here is a visualization
technique to get your body looking like a winner who is
in the habit of feeling that pride, success, and joy of
being alive.

Your Posture Is Your Biggest Success
Barometer

Imagine you are a world-renowned acrobat, master of
the iron-jaw act waiting in the wings of the Ringling
Bros. and Barnum & Bailey Circus. Soon you will dart
into the center ring to captivate the crowd with the
precision and balance of your body.

Before walking through any door—the door to your
office, a party, a meeting, even your kitchen—picture a
leather bit hanging by a cable from the frame. It is
swinging just an inch higher than your head. As you
pass through the door, throw your head back and chomp
on the imaginary dental grip that first pulls your cheeks
back into a smile and then lifts you up. As you ascend
high above the gasping crowd, your body is stretched
into perfect alignment—head high, shoulders back,
torso out of hips, feet weightless. At the zenith of the
tent, you spin like a graceful top to the amazement and
admiration of the crowd craning their necks to watch
you. Now you look like a Somebody.

One day, to test Hang by Your Teeth, I decided to
count how many times I walked through a doorway:
sixty times, even at home. You calculate: twice out your
front door, twice in, six times to the bathroom, eight
times to the kitchen, and through countless doors at

yy)

a 7.
your office. It adds up. Visualize anything sixty times a
day and it becomes a habit! Habitual good posture is the
first mark of a big winner.

You are now ready to float into the room to captivate
the crowd or close the sale (or maybe just settle for
looking like the most important Somebody in the room).

You now have all the basics Bob the artist needs to
portray you as a big winner. Like he said, "great
posture, a heads-up look, a confident smile, and a direct
gaze." The ideal image for somebody who's a
Somebody.

TECHNIQUE #4
HANG BY YOUR TEETH

Visualize a circus iron-jaw bit hanging from the
frame of every door you walk through. Take a bite
and, with it firmly between your teeth, let it swoop
you to the peak of the big top. When you hang by
your teeth, every muscle is stretched into perfect
posture position.

Now let's put the whole act into motion. It's time to
turn your attention outward to your conversation
partner. Use the next two techniques to make him or her
feel like a million.

@ AQ

5 How to Win Their Heart by
Responding to Their
"Inner Infant"

Remember the old joke? The comic comes onstage and
the first words out of his mouth are, "Well, how do you
like me so far?" The audience always cracks up. Why?
Because we all silently ask that question. Whenever we
meet someone, we know, consciously or
subconsciously, how they're reacting to us.

Do they look at us? Do they smile? Do they lean
toward us? Do they somehow recognize how wonderful
and special we are? We like those people. They have
good taste. Or do they turn away, obviously
unimpressed by our magnificence. The cretins!

Two people getting to know each other are like little
puppies sniffing each other out. We don't have tails that
wag or hair that bristles. But we do have eyes that
narrow or widen. And hands that flash knuckles or
subconsciously soften in the palms-up "I submit"
position. We have dozens of other involuntary reactions
that take place in the first few moments of togetherness.

Attorneys conducting voir dire are exquisitely aware
of this. They pay close attention to your instinctive
body reactions. They watch to see how fully you are
facing them and just how far forward or back you're
leaning while answering their questions. They check out
your hands. Are they softly open, palms up, signifying

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
acceptance of the ideas they're expressing? Or are you
making a slight fist, knuckles out, signaling rejection?
They scrutinize your face for the split seconds you
break eye contact when discussing relevant subjects like
your feelings on big awards for damages or the death
penalty. Sometimes attorneys bring along a legal
assistant whose sole job is to sit on the sidelines and
take precise note of your every fidget.

An interesting aside: trial lawyers often choose
women to do this twitch-and-turn spying job because,
traditionally, females are sharper observers of subtle
body cues than males. Women, more sensitive to
emotions than men, often ask their husbands, "Is
something bothering you, Honey?" (These
supersensitive women accuse their husbands of being so
insensitive to emotions that they wouldn't notice
anything is wrong until their neckties are drenched in
her tears.)

The attorney and the assistant then review your
"score" on the dozens of subconscious signals you
flashed. Depending on their tally, you could find
yourself on jury duty or twiddling your thumbs back in
the juror's waiting room.

Trial lawyers are so conscious of body language that,
in the 1960s during the famous trial of the Chicago
Seven, defense attorney William Kuntsler actually made
a legal objection to Judge Julius Hoffman's posture.
During the summation by the prosecution, Judge
Hoffman leaned forward, which, accused Kuntsler, sent
a message to the jury of attention and interest. During
his defense summation, complained Kuntsler, Judge

@ AQ

Hoffman leaned back, sending the jury a subliminal
message of disinterest.

You're on Trial—and You Only Have
Ten Seconds

Like attorneys deciding whether they want you on their
case, everybody you meet makes a subconscious
judgment on whether they want you in their lives. They
base their verdict greatly on the same signals, your
body-language answer to their unspoken question,
"Well, how do you like me so far?"

The first few moments of your reactions set the stage
upon which the entire relationship will be played out. If
you ever want anything from the new acquaintance,
your unspoken answer to their unspoken question,
"How do you like me so far?" must be, "Wow! I really
like you."

When a little four year old feels bashful, he slumps,
puts his arms up in front of his chest, steps back, and
hides behind Mommy's skirt. However, when little
Johnny sees Daddy come home, he runs up to him, he
smiles, his eyes get wide, and he opens his arms for a
hug. A loving child's body is like a tiny flower bud
unfolding to the sunshine.

Twenty, thirty, forty, fifty years of life on earth make
little difference. When forty-year-old Johnny is feeling
timid, he slumps and folds his arms in front of his chest.
When he wants to reject a salesman or business
colleague, he turns away and closes him off with a
myriad of body signals. However, when welcoming his

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
loved one home after an absence, big Johnny opens his
body to her like a giant daffodil spreading its petals to
the sun after a rainstorm.

Treat People Like Big Babies

Once I was at a corporate star-studded party with an
attractive, recently divorced friend of mine. Carla had
been a copywriter with one of the leading advertising
agencies which, like so many companies then, had
downsized. My girlfriend was both out of work and out
of a relationship.

At this particular party, the pickings for Carla were
good, both personally and professionally. Several times
as Carla and I stood talking, one good-looking corporate
male beast or another would find himself within a few
feet of us. More often than not, one of these desirable
males would flash his teeth at Carla. She sometimes
graced the tentatively courting male with a quick smile
over her shoulder. But then she'd turn back to our
mundane conversation as though she were hanging on
my every word. I knew she was trying not to look
anxious, but inside Carla was crying out, "Why doesn't
he come speak to us?"

Right after one prize corporate Big Cat smiled but,
because of Carla's minimal reaction, wandered back
into the social jungle, I had to say, "Carla, do you know
who that was? He's the head of the Young & Rubicam
in Paris. They're looking for copywriters willing to
relocate. And he's single!" Carla moaned.

Just then we heard a little voice down by Carla's left
knee. "Hello!" We looked down simultaneously. Little

@ AQ

five-year-old Willie, the hostess's adorable young son,
was tugging on Carla's skirt, obviously craving
attention.

"Well, well, well," Carla cried out, a big smile
erupting all over her face. Carla turned toward him.
Carla kneeled down, touched little Willie's elbow, and
crooned, "Well, hello there, Willie. How are you
enjoying Mommy's nice party?"

Little Willie beamed.

When little Willie finally trundled off to tug on the
garments of the next group of potential attention givers,
Carla and I returned to our grown-up conversing.
During our chat, corporate beasts continued to stalk
Carla with their eyes and she continued casting half
smiles at them. She was obviously disappointed none of
them was making a further approach. I had to bite my
tongue. Finally, when I felt it was going to bleed from
the pressure of my teeth, I said, "Carla, have you been
noticing that four or five men have come over and
smiled at you."

"Yes," Carla whispered, her eyes darting nervously
around the room lest anyone overhear us.

"And you've been giving them little half smiles," I
continued.

"Yes," she murmured, now confused at my question.

"Remember when little Willie came up and tugged
on your skirt? Do you recall how you smiled that
beautiful big smile of yours, turned toward him, and
welcomed him into our grown-up conversation?"

"Yee-es," she answered haltingly.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
"Well, I have a request, Carla. I want you to give the
next man who smiles at you that same big smile you
gave Willie. I want you to turn toward him just like you
did then. Maybe even reach out and touch his arm like
you did Willie's, and then welcome him into our
conversation."

"Oh Leil, I couldn't do that."

"Carla, do it!" Sure enough, within a few minutes,
another attractive man wandered our way and smiled.
Carla played her role to perfection. She flashed her
beautiful teeth, turned fully toward him, and said,
"Hello, come join us." He wasted no time accepting
Carla's invitation.

After a few moments, I excused myself. Neither
noticed my departure because they were in animated
conversation. The last glimpse I had of my friend at the
party was her floating out the door on the arm of her
new friend.

Just then the technique I call "The Big-Baby Pivot"
was born. It is a skill that will help you win whatever
your heart desires from whatever type of beasts you
encounter in the social or corporate jungle.

TECHNIQUE #5
THE BIG-BABY PIVOT

Give everyone you meet The Big-Baby Pivot. The
instant the two of you are introduced, reward your
new acquaintance. Give the warm smile, the total-
body turn, and the undivided attention you would

@ AQ

give a tiny tyke who crawled up to your feet, turned
a precious face up to yours, and beamed a big
toothless grin. Pivoting 100 percent toward the new
person shouts "I think you are very, very special."

Remember, buried deep inside everyone is a big baby
who is rattling the crib, wailing out for recognition of
how very special he or she is.

The following technique reinforces the big baby's
suspicion that he or she is, indeed, the center of the
universe.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
6 How to Make Someone
Feel Like an Old Friend
at Once

A very wise man with the funny name of Zig? once told
me, "People don't care how much you know until they
know how much you care. . . about them." Zig Ziglar is
right. The secret to making people like you is showing
how much you like them!

Your body is a twenty-four-hour broadcasting station
revealing to anyone within eyeshot precisely how you
feel at any given moment. Even if your Hang by Your
Teeth posture is gaining their respect, your Flooding
Smile and The Big-Baby Pivot are making them feel
special, and your Sticky Eyes are capturing their hearts
and minds, the rest of your body can reveal any
incongruence. Every inch—from the crinkle of your
forehead to the position of your feet—must give a
command performance if you want to effectively
present an "I care about you" attitude.

Unfortunately, when meeting someone, our brains
are in over-drive. Remember Shakespeare's Julius
Caesar? He said of Cassius, he "has a lean and hungry
look . . . he thinks too much . . . such men are
dangerous." So it is with our brains when conversing
with a new acquaintance. Our brains become lean.
(Some of us are fighting off shyness. Others are
frantically sizing up the situation.) And hungry. (We're
deciding what, if anything, we want from this potential

Ds)
relationship.) So we think too much instead of
responding with candid, unself-conscious friendliness.
Such actions are dangerous to impending friendship,
love, or commerce.

When our bodies are shooting off ten thousand
bullets of stimuli every second, a few shots are apt to
misfire and reveal shyness or hidden hostility. We need
a technique to ensure every shot aims right at the heart
of our subject. We need to trick our bodies into reacting
perfectly.

To find it, let's explore the only time we don't need to
worry about any shyness or negativity slipping out
through our body language. It's when we feel none. That
happens when we're chatting with close friends. When
we see someone we love or feel completely comfortable
with, we respond warmly from head to toe without a
thought. Our lips part happily. We step closer. Our arms
reach out. Our eyes become soft and wide. Even our
palms turn up and our bodies turn fully toward our dear
friend.

How to Trick Your Body into Doing
Everything Right

Here's a visualization technique that accomplishes all
that. It guarantees that everyone you encounter will feel
your warmth. I call it "Hello Old Friend."

When meeting someone, play a mental trick on
yourself. In your mind's eye, see him or her as an old
friend, someone you had a wonderful relationship with
years ago. But somehow you lost track of your friend.
You tried so hard to find your good buddy, but there

@ AQ

was no listing in the phone book. No information
online. None of your mutual friends had a clue.

Suddenly, WOW! What a surprise! After all those
years, the two of you are reunited. You are so happy.

That's where the pretending stops. Obviously, you are
not going to try to convince the new person that the two
of you are really old friends. You are not going to hug
and kiss and say, "Great to see you again!" or "How
have you been all these years?" You merely say,
"Hello," "How do you do," "I am pleased to meet you."
But, inside, it's a very different story.

You will amaze yourself. The delight of rediscovery
fills your face and buoys up your body language. I
sometimes jokingly say if you were a light, you'd beam
on the other person. If you were a dog, you'd be
wagging your tail. You make this new person feel very
special indeed.

TECHNIQUE #6
HELLO OLD FRIEND

When meeting someone, imagine he or she is an old
friend (an old customer, an old beloved, or someone
else you had great affection for). How sad, the
vicissitudes of life tore you two asunder. But, holy
mackerel, now the party (the meeting, the
convention) has reunited you with your long-lost old
friend!

The joyful experience starts a remarkable chain
reaction in your body from the subconscious

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
softening of your eyebrows to the positioning of
your toes—and everything between.

In my seminars, I first have people introduce
themselves to another participant before they've learned
the Hello Old Friend technique. The group chats as
though at a pleasant semiformal gathering. Later I ask
them to introduce themselves to another stranger,
imagining they are old friends. The difference is
extraordinary. When they're using Hello Old Friend, the
room comes alive. The atmosphere is charged with
good feeling. The air sparkles with happier, high-energy
people. They are standing closer, laughing more
sincerely, and reaching out to one another. I feel like I'm
attending a terrific bash that's been going on for hours.

Not a Word Need Be Spoken

The Hello Old Friend technique even supersedes
language. Whenever you're traveling in countries where
you don't speak the native tongue, be sure to use it. If
you find yourself with a group of people who are all
speaking a language unknown to you, just imagine them
to be a group of your old friends. Everything is fine
except they momentarily forgot how to speak English.
In spite of the fact you won't understand a word, your
whole body still responds with congeniality and
acceptance.

I've used the Hello Old Friend technique while
traveling in Europe. Sometimes my English-speaking
friends who live there tell me their European colleagues
say I am the friendliest American they've ever met. Yet,
we'd never spoken a word between us!

@ AQ

A Self-Fulfilling Prophecy

An added benefit to the Hello Old Friend technique is it
becomes a self-fulfilling prophecy. When you act as
though you like someone, you start to really like them.
An Adelphi University study called, appropriately,
"Believing Another Likes or Dislikes You: Behaviors
Making the Beliefs Come True" proved it?
Researchers told volunteers to treat unsuspecting
subjects as though they liked them. When surveyed
later, the results showed the volunteers wound up
genuinely liking the subjects. The unsuspecting subjects
were also surveyed. These respondents expressed much
higher respect and affection for the volunteers who
pretended they liked them. What it boils down to is love
begets love, like begets like, respect begets respect. Use
the Hello Old Friend technique and you will soon have
many new "old friends" who wind up genuinely liking
you.

You now have all the basics to come across to
everyone you meet as a Somebody, a friendly
Somebody. But your job isn't over yet. In addition to
being liked, you want to appear credible, intelligent, and
sure of yourself. Each of the next three techniques
accomplishes one of those goals.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
7 How to Come Across as 100
Percent Credible to
Everyone

My friend Helen is a highly respected headhunter. She
makes terrific hires for her clients and I once asked her
the secret of her success. Helen replied, "Probably
because I can almost always tell when an applicant is
lying."

"How can you tell?"

She said, "Well, just last week, I was interviewing a
young woman for a position as marketing director for a
small firm. Throughout the interview, the applicant had
been sitting with her left leg crossed over her right. Her
hands were comfortably resting in her lap and she was
looking directly at me.

"I asked her salary. Without swerving her eyes from
mine, she told me. I asked if she enjoyed her work. Still
looking directly at me, she said, 'yes.' Then I asked her
why she left her previous job.

"At that point, her eyes fleetingly darted away before
regaining eye contact with me." Helen continued.
"Then, while answering my question, she shifted in her
seat and crossed her right leg over her left. At one point,
she put her hands up to her mouth."

Helen said, "That's all I needed. With her words she
was telling me she felt her 'growth opportunities were

Ds)
limited at her previous firm.’ But her body told me she
was not being entirely forthright."

Helen went on to explain the young woman's
fidgeting alone wouldn't prove she was_ lying.
Nevertheless, it was enough, she said, that she wanted
to pursue the subject further.

"So I tested it." Helen explained. "I changed the
subject and went back to more neutral territory. I asked
her about her goals for the future. Again, the girl
stopped fidgeting. She folded her hands in her lap as she
told me how she'd always wanted to work in a small
company in order to have hands-on experience with
more than one project.

"Then I repeated my earlier question. I asked again if
it was only the lack of growth opportunity that made her
leave her previous position. Sure enough, once again,
the woman shifted in her seat and momentarily broke
eye contact. As she continued talking about her last job,
she started rubbing her forearm."

Helen continued to probe until she finally uncovered
the truth. The applicant had been fired because of a
nasty disagreement with the marketing director for
whom she worked.

Human resources professionals who interview
applicants and police officers who interrogate suspected
criminals are trained to detect lies. They know
specifically what signals to look for. The rest of us,
although not knowledgeable about specific clues to
deceit, have a sixth sense when someone is not telling
us the truth.

@ AQ

Just recently a colleague of mine was considering
hiring an in-house booking agent. After interviewing
one fellow she said to me, "I don't know. I don't really
think he has the success he claims."

"You think he's lying to you?" I asked.

"Absolutely. And the funny thing is I can't tell why.
He looked right at me. He answered all my questions
directly. There was just something that didn't seem
right."

Employers often feel this way. They have a gut
feeling about someone but they can't put their finger on
it. Because of that, many large companies turn to the
polygraph, or lie detector, a mechanical apparatus
designed to detect if someone is lying. Banks,
drugstores, and grocery stores rely heavily on it for pre-
employment screening. The FBI, Justice Department,
and most police departments have used the polygraph
on suspects. Interestingly, the polygraph is not a lie
detector at all! All the machine can do is detect
fluctuations in our autonomic nervous system—changes
in breathing patterns, sweating, flushing, heart rate,
blood pressure, and other signs of emotional arousal.

So is it accurate? Well, yes, often it is. Why? Because
when the average person tells a lie, he or she is
emotionally aroused and bodily changes do take place.
When that happens, the individual might fidget.
Experienced or trained liars, however, can fool the
polygraph.

Beware of the Appearance of Lying—
Even When You're Telling the Truth

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Problems arise for us when we are not lying but are
feeling emotional or intimidated by the person with
whom we are talking. A young man telling an attractive
woman about his business success might shift his
weight. A woman talking about her company's track
record to an important client could rub her neck.

More problems arise out of the atmosphere. A
businessman who doesn't feel nervous at all could
loosen his collar because the room is hot. A politician
giving a speech outdoors could blink excessively
because the air is dusty. Even though erroneous, these
fidgety movements give the listeners the sense
something just isn't right or a gut feeling that the
speaker is lying.

Professional communicators, alert to this hazard,
consciously squelch any signs anyone could mistake for
shiftiness. They fix a constant gaze on the listener. They
never put their hands on their faces. They don't massage
their arm when it tingles or rub their nose when it
itches. They don't loosen their collar when it's hot or
blink because it's sandy. They don't wipe away tiny
perspiration beads in public or shield their eyes from the
sun. They suffer because they know fidgeting
undermines’ credibility. Consider the infamous
September 25, 1960, televised presidential debate
between Richard Milhous Nixon and John Fitzgerald
Kennedy. Political pundits speculate Nixon's lack of
makeup, his fidgeting, and mopping his brow on camera
lost him the election.

If you want to come across as an entirely credible
Somebody, try to squelch all extraneous movement

@ AQ

when your communication counts. I call the technique
"Limit the Fidget."

TECHNIQUE #7
LIMIT THE FIDGET

Whenever your conversation really counts, let your
nose itch, your ear tingle, or your foot prickle. Do
not fidget, twitch, wiggle, squirm, or scratch. And
above all, keep your paws away from your puss.
Hand motions near your face and all fidgeting can
give your listener the gut feeling you're fibbing.

Now let's tackle intelligence. "What?" you ask. "Can
people come across as more intelligent than they really
are?" Well, did you ever hear of Hans, the counting
horse? Hans was considered the most intelligent horse
in history, and he used the technique I'm about to
suggest.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
8 How to Read People Like
You Have ESP

Hans, a very clever horse, inspires this next technique.
Hans was owned by Herr von Osten, a Berliner, who
had trained Hans to do simple arithmetic by tapping his
right front hoof. So prodigious was Hans's ability that
the horse's fame quickly spread throughout Europe in
the early 1900s. He became known as Clever Hans, the
counting horse.

Herr von Osten taught Hans to do more than just add.
Soon the horse could subtract and divide. In time,
Clever Hans even mastered the multiplication tables.
The horse became quite a phenomenon. Without his
owner uttering a single word, Hans could count out the
size of his audience, tap the number wearing glasses, or
respond to any counting question they asked him.

Finally, Hans achieved the ultimate ability that
separates man from animal—language. Hans "learned"
the alphabet. By tapping out hoof beats for each letter,
he answered any question about anything humans had
read in a newspaper or heard on the radio. He could
even answer common questions about history,
geography, and human biology.

Hans made headlines and was the main topic of
discussion at dinner parties throughout Europe. The
"human horse" quickly attracted the attention of
scientists, psychology professors, veterinarians, even
cavalry officers. Naturally they were skeptical, so they

Ds)
established an official commission to decide whether
the horse was a case of clever trickery or equine genius.
Whatever their suspicions, it was obvious to all, Hans
was a very smart horse. Compared to other horses, Hans
was a Somebody.

Cut to today. Why is it when you talk with certain
individuals you just know they are smarter than other
people—that they are a Somebody? Often they're not
discussing highfalutin subjects or using two-dollar
words. Nevertheless, everybody knows. People say,
"She's smart as a whip," "He doesn't miss a trick," "She
picks up on everything," "He's got the right stuff,"
"She's got horse sense." Which brings us back to Hans.

The day of the big test arrived. Everyone was
convinced it must be a trick orchestrated by Herr von
Osten, Hans's owner. It was standing room only in the
auditorium filled with scientists, reporters, clairvoyants,
psychics, and horse lovers who eagerly awaited the
answer. The canny commission members were
confident this was the day they would expose Hans as
chicanery because they, too, had a trick up their sleeves.
They were going to bar von Osten from the hall and put
his horse to the test all alone.

When the crowd was assembled, they told von Osten
he must leave the auditorium. The surprised owner
departed, and Hans was stranded in an auditorium with
a suspicious and anxious audience.

The confident commission leader asked Hans the
first mathematical question. He tapped out the right
answer! A second. He got it right! Then a third. Then
the language questions followed. He got them all right!

@ AQ

The commission was befuddled. The critics were
silenced.

However, the public wasn't. With a great outcry, they
insisted on a new commission. The world waited while,
once again, the authorities gathered scientists,
professors, veterinarians, cavalry officers, and reporters
from around the world.

Only after this second commission put Hans to the
test did the truth about the clever horse come out.
Commission number two started the enquiry
perfunctorily with a simple addition problem. This time,
however, instead of asking the question out loud for all
to hear, one researcher whispered a number in Hans's
ear, and a second researcher whispered another.
Everyone expected Hans to quickly tap out the sum. But
Hans remained dumb! Aha! The researchers revealed
the truth to the waiting world. Can you guess what that
was?

Here's a hint: when the audience or researcher knew
the answer, Hans did, too. Now can you guess?

People gave off very subtle body-language signals
the moment Hans's hoof gave the right number of taps.
When Hans started tapping the answer to a question, the
audience would show subtle signs of tension. Then,
when Hans reached the right number, they responded by
an expulsion of breath or slight relaxation of muscles.
Von Osten had trained Hans to stop tapping at that point
and therefore appear to give the right answer.

Hans was using the technique I call "Hans's Horse
Sense." He watched his audiences’ reactions very
carefully and planned his responses accordingly.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
If a Horse Can Do It, So Can You

Have you ever been watching TV when the phone
rings? Someone asks you to hit the mute button on the
television so they can talk. Because there's no sound
now, you watch the TV action more carefully. You see
performers smiling, scowling, smirking, squinting, and
scores of other expressions. You don't miss a bit of the
story because, just from their expressions, you can tell
what they're thinking. Hans's Horse Sense is just that—
watching people, seeing how they're reacting, and then
making your moves accordingly. Even while you're
talking, keep your eyes on your listeners and watch how
they're responding to what you're saying. Don't miss a
trick.

Are they smiling? Are they nodding? Are their palms
up? They like what they're hearing.

Are they frowning? Are they looking away? Are their
knuckles clenched? Maybe they don't.

Are they rubbing their necks? Are they stepping
back? Are their feet pointing toward the door? Maybe
they want to get away.

You don't need a complete course in body language
here. Already your life's experience has given you a
good grounding in that. Most people know if their
conversation partners step back or look away, they're
not interested in what you're saying. When they think
you're a pain in the neck they rub theirs. When they feel
superior to you, they steeple their hands.

We'll explore more body-language specifics in
Technique #77: Eyeball Selling. For the moment, all

you need to do is tune to the silent channel being
broadcast by the speaker.

TECHNIQUE #8
HANS'S HORSE SENSE

Make it a habit to get on a dual track while talking.
Express yourself, but keep a keen eye on how your
listener is reacting to what you're saying. Then plan
your moves accordingly.

If a horse can do it, so can a human. People will
say you pick up on everything. You never miss a
trick. You've got horse sense.

You now have eight techniques to help you come
across as a confident, credible, and charismatic person
who makes everyone he or she comes in contact with
feel like a million. Let's explore one last technique in
this section to put it all together and make sure you
don't miss a beat.
9 How to Make Sure You
Don't Miss a Single Beat

You've seen professional skiing on television? The
athlete at the top of the piste, every muscle primed and
poised, waiting for the gun to propel him to ultimate
victory. Look deeply into his eyes and you'll see he is
having an out-of-body experience. In his mind's eye, the
skier is swooshing down the slope, zapping back and
forth between the poles, and sliding across the finish
line in faster time than the world thought possible. The
athlete is visualizing.

All athletes do it: divers, runners, jumpers, javelin
throwers, lugers, swimmers, skaters, acrobats. They
visualize their magic before performing it. They see
their own bodies bending, twisting, flipping, or flying
through the air. They hear the sound of the wind, the
splash in the water, the whirr of the javelin, the thud of
its landing. They smell the grass, the cement, the pool,
the dust. Before they move a muscle, professional
athletes watch the whole movie, which, of course, ends
in their own victory.

Sports psychologists tell us visualization is not just
for top-level competitive athletes. Studies show mental
rehearsal helps weekend athletes sharpen their golf,
their tennis, their running, whatever their favorite
activity. Experts agree if you see the pictures, hear the
sounds, and feel the movements of your body in your
mind before you do the activity, the effect is powerful.

Ds)
"Twenty-Six Miles on My Mattress"

Psychological mumbo jumbo? Absolutely not! My
friend Richard runs marathons. Once, several years ago,
a scant three weeks before the big New York marathon,
an out-of-control car crashed into Richard's and he was
taken to the hospital He was not badly injured.
Nevertheless, his friends felt sorry for him because
being laid up two weeks in bed would, naturally, knock
him out of the big event.

What a surprise when, on that crisp November
marathon morning in Central Park, Richard showed up
in his little shorts and big running shoes.

"Richard, are you crazy? You're in no shape to run.
You've been in bed these past few weeks!" we all cried
out.

"My body may have been in bed," he replied, "but
I've been running."

"What?" we asked in unison.

"Yep. Every day. Twenty-six miles, 385 yards, right
there on my mattress." Richard explained that in his
imagination he saw himself traversing every step of the
course. He saw the sights, heard the sounds, and felt the
twitching movements in his muscles. He visualized
himself racing in the marathon.

Richard didn't do as well as he had the year before,
but the miracle is he finished the marathon, without
injury, without excessive fatigue thanks to his
visualization. It works in just about any endeavor you
apply it to—including being a terrific communicator.

@ AQ

Visualization works best when you feel totally
relaxed. Only when you have a calm state of mind can
you get clear, vivid images. Do your visualization in the
quiet of your home or car before leaving for the party,
the convention, or the big-deal meeting. See it all in
your mind's eye ahead of time.

You now have the skills necessary to get you started
on the right foot with any new person in your life.
Think of yourself in

TECHNIQUE #9

WATCH THE SCENE BEFORE YOU MAKE
THE SCENE

Rehearse being the Super Somebody you want to be
ahead of time. SEE yourself walking around with
Hang by Your Teeth posture, shaking hands, smiling
the Flooding Smile, and making Sticky Eyes. HEAR
yourself chatting comfortably with everyone. FEEL
the pleasure of knowing you are in peak form and
everyone is gravitating toward you. VISUALIZE
yourself a Super Somebody. Then it all happens
automatically.

these first moments like a rocket taking off. When the
folks at Cape Kennedy aim a spacecraft for the moon, a
mistake in the millionth of a degree at the beginning,
when the craft is still on the ground, means missing the
moon by thousands of miles. Likewise, a tiny body-
language blooper at the outset of a relationship may
mean you will never make a hit with that person. But

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
with The Flooding Smile, Sticky Eyes, Epoxy Eyes,
Hang by Your Teeth, The Big-Baby Pivot, Hello Old
Friend, Limit the Fidget, Hans's Horse Sense, and
Watch the Scene Before You Make the Scene, you'll be
right on course to get whatever you eventually want
from anybody—be it business, friendship, or love.

We now move from the silent world to the spoken
word.

@ AQ

PART TWO
HOW TO KNOW WHAT TO SAY
AFTER YOU SAY "HI"

Just as the first glimpse should please their eyes, your
first words should delight their ears. Your tongue is a
welcome mat embossed with either "Welcome" or "Go
Away!" To make your conversation partner feel
welcome, you must master small talk.

Small talk! Can you hear the shudder? Those two
little words drive a stake into the hearts of some
otherwise fearless and undaunted souls. Invite them to a
party where they don't know anyone, and it mainlines
queasiness into their veins.

If this sounds familiar, take consolation from the fact
that the brighter the individual, the more he or she
detests small talk. When consulting for Fortune 500
companies, I was astounded. Top _ executives,
completely comfortable making big talk with their
boards of directors or addressing their stockholders,
confessed they felt like little lost children at parties
where the pratter was less than prodigious.

Small-talk haters take further consolation from the
fact that you are in star-studded company. Fear of small
talk and stage fright are the same thing. The butterflies
you feel in your stomach when you're in a roomful of
strangers flutter 'round the tummies of top performers.
Pablo Casals complained of lifelong stage fright. Carly
Simon curtailed live performances because of it. A
friend of mine who worked with Neil Diamond said he

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
insisted the words to "Song Sung Blue," a tune he'd
been crooning for forty years, be displayed on his
teleprompter, lest fear freeze him into forgetfulness.

Is Small-Talk-a-Phobia Curable?

Someday, scientists say, communications fears may be
treatable with drugs. They're already experimenting
with Prozac to change people's personalities. But some
fear disastrous side effects. The good news is that when
human beings think, and genuinely feel, certain
emotions—like confidence that they have specific
techniques to fall back on—the brain manufactures its
own antidotes. If fear and distaste of small talk is the
disease, knowing solid techniques like the ones we
explore in this section is the cure.

Incidentally, science is beginning to recognize it's not
chance or even upbringing that one person has a belly
of butterflies and another doesn't. In our brains, neurons
communicate through chemicals called
neurotransmitters. Some people have excessive levels of
a neurotransmitter called norepinephrine, a chemical
cousin of adrenaline. For some children, just walking
into a kindergarten room makes them want to run and
hide under a table.

As a tot, I spent a lot of time under the table. As a
preteen in an all-girls boarding school, my legs turned
to linguine every time I had to converse with a male. In
eighth grade, I once had to invite a boy to our school
prom. The entire selection of dancing males lived in the
dormitory of our brother school. And I only knew one
resident, Eugene. I had met Eugene at summer camp the

@ AQ

year before. Mustering all my courage, I decided to call
him.

Two weeks before the dance, I felt the onset of
sweaty palms. I put the call off. One week before, rapid
heartbeat set in. I put the call off. Finally, three days
before the big bash, breathing became difficult. Time
was running out.

The critical moment, I rationalized, would be easier
if I read from a script. I wrote out the following: "Hi,
this is Leil. We met at camp last summer. Remember?"
(I programmed in a pause where I hoped he would say
"yes.") "Well, National Cathedral School's prom is this
Saturday night and I'd like you to be my date." (I
programmed in another pause where I prayed he'd say
"yes.")

On Thursday before the dance, I could no longer
delay the inevitable. I picked up the receiver and dialed.
Clutching the phone waiting for Eugene to answer, my
eyes followed perspiration droplets rolling down my
arm and dripping off my elbow. A small salty puddle
was forming around my feet. "Hello?" a sexy, deep
male voice answered the dorm phone.

In faster-than-a-speeding-bullet voice, like a nervous
novice telemarketer, I shot out, "Hi, this is Leil. We-
met-at-camp—last-summer-remember?" Forgetting to
pause for his assent, I raced on, "Well-National-
Cathedral-School's-prom-is-this-Saturday-night-and-I'd-
like-you-to-be-my-date."

To my relief and delight, I heard a big, cheerful "Oh
that's great, I'd love to!" I exhaled my first normal
breath all day. He continued, "I'll pick you up at the

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
girl's dorm at 7:30. I'll have a pink carnation for you.
Will that go with your dress? And my name is Donnie."

Donnie? Donnie! Who said anything about Donnie?

Well, Donnie turned out to be the best date I had that
decade. Donnie had buckteeth, a head full of tousled red
hair, and communications skills that immediately put
me at ease.

On Saturday night, Donnie greeted me at the door,
carnation in hand and grin on face. He joked self-
deprecatingly about how he was dying to go to the prom
so, knowing it was a case of mistaken identity, he
accepted anyway. He told me he was thrilled when "the
girl with the lovely voice" called, and he took full
responsibility for "tricking" me into an invitation.
Donnie made me comfortable and confident as we
chatted. First we made small talk and then he gradually
led me into subjects I was interested in. I flipped over
Donnie, and he became my very first boyfriend.

Donnie instinctively had the small-talk skills that we
are now going to fashion into techniques to help you
glide through small talk like a hot knife through butter.
When you master them, you will be able—like Donnie
—to melt the heart of everyone you touch.

The goal of How to Talk to Anyone is not, of course,
to make you a small-talk whiz and stop there. The aim
is to make you a dynamic conversationalist and forceful
communicator. However, small talk is the first crucial
step toward that goal.

@ AQ

10 How to Start Great Small
Talk

You've been there. You're introduced to someone at a
party or business meeting. You shake hands, your eyes
meet .. . and suddenly your entire body of knowledge
dries up and thought processes come to a screeching
halt. You fish for a topic to fill the awkward silence.
Failing, your new contact slips away in the direction of
the cheese tray.

We want the first words falling from our lips to be
sparkling, witty, and insightful. We want our listeners to
immediately recognize how riveting we are. I was once
at a gathering where everybody was sparkling, witty,
insightful, and riveting. It drove me berserk because
most of these same everybodies felt they had to prove it
in their first ten words or less!

Several years ago, the Mensa organization, a social
group of extremely bright individuals who score in the
country's top 2 percent in intelligence, invited me to be
a keynote speaker at their annual convention. Their
cocktail party was in full swing in the lobby of the hotel
as I arrived. After checking in, I hauled my bags
through the hoard of happy-hour Mensans to the
elevator. The doors separated and I stepped into an
elevator packed with party goers. As we began the
journey up to our respective floors, the elevator gave
several sleepy jerks.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
"Hmm," I remarked, in response to the elevator's
sluggishness, "the elevator seems a little flaky."
Suddenly, each elevator occupant, feeling compelled to
exhibit his or her 132-plus IQ, pounced forth with a
thunderous explanation. "It's obviously got poor rail-
guide alignment," announced one. "The relay contact is
not made up," declared another. Suddenly I felt like a
grasshopper trapped in a stereo speaker. I couldn't wait
to escape the attack of the mental giants.

Afterward, in the solitude of my room, I thought
back and reflected that the Mensans' answers were,
indeed, interesting. Why then did I have an adverse
reaction? I realized it was too much, too soon. I was
tired. Their high energy and intensity jarred my sluggish
state.

You see, small talk is not about facts or words. It's
about music, about melody. Small talk is about putting
people at ease. It's about making comforting noises
together like cats purring, children humming, or groups
chanting. You must first match your listener's mood.

Like repeating the note on the music teacher's
harmonica, top communicators pick up on_ their
listener's tone of voice and duplicate it. Instead of
jumping in with such intensity, the Mensans could have
momentarily matched my lethargic mood by saying,
"Yes, it is slow, isn't it?" Had they then prefaced their
information with, "Have you ever been curious why an
elevator is slow?" I would have responded with a
sincere "Yes, I have." After a moment of equalized
energy levels, I would have welcomed _ their
explanations about the rail-guard alignment or whatever
the heck it was. And friendships might have started.

@ AQ

I'm sure you've suffered the aggression of a mood
mismatch. Have you ever been relaxing when some
overexcited, hot-breathed colleague starts pounding you
with questions? Or the reverse: you're late, rushing to a
meeting, when an associate stops you and starts lazily
narrating a long, languorous story. No matter how
interesting the tale, you don't want to hear it now.

The first step in starting a conversation without
strangling it is to match your listener's mood, if only for
a sentence or two. When it comes to small talk, think
music, not words. Is your listener adagio or allegro?
Match that pace. I call it "Make a Mood Match."

Matching Their Mood Can Make or
Break the Sale

Matching customers’ moods is crucial for salespeople.
Some years ago, I decided to throw a surprise party for
my best friend Stella. It was going to be a triple-
whammy party because she was celebrating three
events. One, it was Stella's birthday. Two, she was
newly engaged. And three, Stella had just landed her
dream job. She had been my buddy since grade school,
and I was floating on air over her birthday-engagement-
congratulations bash.

I had heard one of the best French restaurants in
town had an attractive back room for parties. About 5
P.M. one afternoon, I wafted happily into the restaurant
and found the seated maitre d' languidly looking over
his reservation book. I began excitedly babbling about
Stella's triple-whammy celebration and asked to see that
fabulous back room I'd heard so much about. Without a

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
smile or moving a muscle, he said, "Zee room ees een
zee back. You can go zee eet eef you like."

CRASH. What a party pooper! His morose mood
kicked all the party spirit out of me, and I no longer
wanted to rent his stupid space. Before I even looked at
the room, he lost the rental. I left his restaurant vowing
to find a place where the management would at least
appear to share the joy of the happy occasion.

Every mother knows this instinctively. To quiet a
whimpering infant, Mama doesn't just shake her finger
and shout, "Quiet down." No, Mama picks baby up.
Mama cries, "Ooh, ooh, oh," sympathetically matching
baby's misery for a few moments. Mama then gradually
transitions the two of them into hush-hush happy
sounds. Your listeners are all big babies! Match their
mood if you want them to stop crying, start buying, or
otherwise come 'round to your way of thinking.

TECHNIQUE #10
MAKE A MOOD MATCH

Before opening your mouth, take a "voice sample"
of your listener to detect his or her state of mind.
Take a "psychic photograph" of the expression to see
if your listener looks buoyant, bored, or blitzed. If
you ever want to bring people around to your
thoughts, you must match their mood and voice
tone, if only for a moment.

@ AQ

11 How to Sound Like You've
Got a Super Personality
(No Matter What You're
Saying!)

Once while at a party, I spotted a fellow surrounded by
a fan club of avid listeners. The chap was smiling,
gesticulating, and obviously enthralling his audience. I
went over to hearken to this fascinating speaker. I
joined his throng of admirers and eavesdropped for a
minute or two. Suddenly, it dawned on me: the fellow
was saying the most banal things! His script was dull,
dull, dull. Ah, but he was delivering his prosaic
observations with such passion, and therefore, he held
the group spellbound. It convinced me that it's not all
what you say, it's how you say it.

"What's a Good Opening Line When I
Meet People?"

I am often asked this question, and I give them the same
answer a woman who once worked in my office always
gave me. Dottie often stayed at her desk to work
through lunch. Sometimes, as I was leaving for the
sandwich shop, I'd ask her, "Hey Dottie, what can I
bring you back for lunch?"

Dottie, trying to be obliging, would say, "Oh
anything is fine with me."

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
"No, Dottie!" I wanted to scream. "Tell me what you
want. Ham 'n' cheese on rye? Bologna on whole wheat,
hold the mayo? Peanut butter 'n' jelly with sliced
bananas? Be specific. 'Anything' is a hassle."

Frustrating though it may be, my answer to the
opening-line question is "Anything!" because almost
anything you say really is OK—as long as it puts people
at ease and sounds passionate.

How do you put people at ease? By convincing them
they are OK and that the two of you are similar. When
you do that, you break down walls of fear, suspicion,
and mistrust.

Why Banal Makes a Bond

Samuel I. Hayakawa was a college president, U.S.
senator, and brilliant linguistic analyst of Japanese
origin. He tells us this story that shows the value of, as
he says, "unoriginal remarks."

In early 1943—after the attack on Pearl Harbor at a
time when there were rumors of Japanese spies—
Hayakawa had to wait several hours in a railroad station
in Oshkosh, Wisconsin. He noticed others waiting in the
station were staring at him suspiciously. Because of the
war, they were apprehensive about his presence. He
later wrote, "One couple with a small child was staring
with special uneasiness and whispering to each other."

So what did Hayakawa do? He made unoriginal
remarks to set them at ease. He said to the husband that
it was too bad the train should be late on so cold a night.
The man agreed.

@ AQ

"I went on," Hayakawa wrote, "to remark that it must
be especially difficult to travel with a small child in
winter when train schedules were so uncertain. Again
the husband agreed. I then asked the child's age and
remarked that their child looked very big and strong for
his age. Again agreement, this time with a slight smile.
The tension was relaxing."

After two or three more exchanges, the man asked
Hayakawa, "I hope you don't mind my bringing it up,
but you're Japanese, aren't you? Do you think the Japs
have any chance of winning this war?"

"Well," Hayakawa replied, "your guess is as good as
mine. I don't know any more than I read in the papers.
But the way I figure it, I don't see how the Japanese,
with their lack of coal and steel and oil . . . can ever beat
a powerfully industrialized nation like the United
States."

Hayakawa went on, "My remark was admittedly
neither original nor well informed. Hundreds of radio
commentators . . . were saying much the same thing
during those weeks. But just because they were, the
remark sounded familiar and was on the right side so
that it was easy to agree with."

The Wisconsin man agreed at once with what seemed
like genuine relief. His next remark was, "Say, I hope
your folks aren't over there while the war is going on."

"Yes, they are," Hayakawa replied. "My father and
mother and two young sisters are over there."

"Do you ever hear from them?" the man asked.

"How can I?" Hayakawa answered.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Both the man and his wife looked troubled and
sympathetic. "Do you mean you won't be able to see
them or hear from them until after the war is over?"

There was more to the conversation but the result
was, within ten minutes they had invited Hayakawa—
whom they initially may have suspected was a Japanese
spy—to visit them sometime in their city and have
dinner in their home. And all because of this brilliant
scholar's admittedly common and unoriginal small talk.
Top communicators know the most soothing and
appropriate first words should be, like Senator
Hayakawa's, unoriginal, even banal. But not indifferent.
Hayakawa delivered his sentiments with sincerity and
passion.

Ascent from Banality

It is not necessary, of course, to stay with mundane
remarks. If you find your company displays cleverness
or wit, you match that. The conversation then escalates
naturally, compatibly. Don't rush it or, like the Mensans,
you seem like you're showing off. The bottom line on
your first words is to have the courage of your own
triteness. Because, remember, people tune in to your
tone more than your text.

TECHNIQUE #11
PROSAIC WITH PASSION

Worried about your first words? Fear not, because
80 percent of your listener's impression has nothing

@ AQ

to do with your words anyway. Almost anything you
say at first is fine. No matter how prosaic the text, an
empathetic mood, a positive demeanor, and
passionate delivery make you sound exciting.

"Anything, Except Liverwurst!"

Back to Dottie waiting for her sandwich at her desk.
Sometimes as I walked out the door scratching my head
wondering what to bring her, she'd call after me,
"Anything, except liverwurst, that is." Thanks, Dottie,
that's a little bit of help.

Here's my "anything, except liverwurst" on small
talk. Anything you say is fine as long as it is not
complaining, rude, or unpleasant. If the first words out
of your mouth are a complaint—BLAM—-people label
you a complainer. Why? Because that complaint is your
new acquaintance's 100 percent sampling of you so far.
You could be the happiest Pollyanna ever, but how will
they know? If your first comment is a complaint, you're
a griper. If your first words are rude, you're a creep. If
your first words are unpleasant, you're a stinker. Open
and shut.

Other than these downers, anything goes. Ask them
where they're from, how they know the host of the
party, where they bought the lovely suit they're wearing
—or hundreds of etceteras. The trick is to ask your
prosaic question with passion to get the other person
talking.

Still feel a bit shaky on making the approach to
strangers? Let's take a quick detour on our road to
meaningful communicating. I'll give you three quickie

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
@ AQ

STO OF Op HO

Ds)

techniques to meet people at parties—then nine more to
make small talk not so small.

12 How to Make People
Want to Start a
Conversation with You

Singles proficient at meeting potential sweethearts
without the benefit of introduction (in the vernacular,
making a "pickup"), have developed a deliciously
devious technique that works equally well for social or
corporate networking purposes. The technique requires
no exceptional skill on your part, only the courage to
sport a simple visual prop called a "Whatzit."

What's a Whatzit? A Whatzit is anything you wear or
carry that is unusual—a unique pin, an interesting
purse, a strange tie, or an amusing hat. A Whatzit is any
object that draws people's attention and inspires them to
approach you and ask, "Uh, what's that?" Your Whatzit
can be as subtle or overt as your personality and the
occasion permit.

I wear around my neck an outmoded pair of glasses
that resembles a double monocle. Often the curious
have approached me at a gathering and asked,
"Whatzit?" I explain it's a lorgnette left to me by my
grandmother, which, of course, paves the way to discuss
hatred of glasses, aging eyes, love or loss of
grandmothers, adoration of antique jewelry—anywhere
the inquisitor wants to take it.

Perhaps, unknowingly, you have fallen prey to this
soon-to-be-legendary technique. At a gathering, have
you ever noticed someone you would like to talk to?
Then you've racked your brain to conjure an excuse to
make the approach. What a bounty it was to discover
that he or she was wearing some weird, wild, or
wonderful something you could comment on.

The Whatzit Way to Love

Your Whatzit is a social aid whether you seek business
rewards or new romance. My friend Alexander carries
Greek worry beads with him wherever he goes. He's not
worried. He knows any woman who wants to talk to
him will come up and say, "What's that?"

Think about it, gentlemen. Suppose you're at a party.
An attractive woman spots you across the room. She
wants to talk to you but she's thinking, "Well, Mister,
you're attractive. But, golly, what can I say to you? You
just ain't got no Whatzit."

Be a Whatzit Seeker, Too

Likewise, become proficient in scrutinizing the apparel
of those you wish to approach. Why not express interest
in the handkerchief in the tycoon's vest pocket, the
brooch on the bosom of the rich divorcée, or the school
ring on the finger of the CEO whose company you want
to work for?

The big spender who, you suspect, might buy a
hundred of your widgets has a tiny golf-club lapel pin?
Say, "Excuse me, I couldn't help but notice your
attractive lapel pin. Are you a golfer? Me, too. What
courses have you played?"

@ AQ

Your business cards and your Whatzit are crucial
socializing artifacts. Whether you are riding in the
elevator, climbing the doorstep, or traversing the path to
the party, make sure your Whatzit is hanging out for all
to see.

TECHNIQUE #12
ALWAYS WEAR A WHATZIT

Whenever you go to a gathering, wear or carry
something unusual to give people who find you the
delightful stranger across the crowded room an
excuse to approach. "Excuse me, I couldn't help but
notice your . . . what IS that?"

The next quickie technique was originated by
doggedly determined politicians who don't let one
partygoer escape if they think he or she could be helpful
to their campaigns. I call it the "Whoozat" technique.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
13 How to Meet the People
You Want to Meet

Say you have scrutinized the body of the important
business contact you want to meet. You've searched in
vain from the tip of his cowlick to the toes of his boots.
He's not sporting a single Whatzit.

If you strike out on finding something to comment
on, resort to the Whoozat technique. Like a persistent
politician, go to the party giver and say, "That
man/woman over there looks interesting. Who is
he/she?" Then ask for an introduction. Don't be hesitant.
The party giver will be pleased you find one of the
guests interesting.

If, however, you are loath to pull the party giver
away from his or her other guests, you still can perform
Whoozat. This time, don't ask for a formal introduction.
Simply pump the party giver for just enough
information to launch you. Find out about the stranger's
jobs, interests, and hobbies.

Suppose the party giver says, "Oh, that's Joe Smith.
I'm not sure what his job is, but I know he loves to ski."
Aha, you've just been given the icebreaker you need.
Now you make a beeline for Joe Smith. "Hi, you're Joe
Smith, aren't you? Susan was just telling me what a
great skier you are. Where do you ski?" You get the
idea.

Ds)
TECHNIQUE #13
WHOOZAT

Whoozat is the most effective, least used (by non-
politicians) meeting-people device ever contrived.
Simply ask the party giver to make the introduction,
or pump for a few facts that you can immediately
turn into icebreakers.

Now the third in our little trio of meeting-who-you-
want tricks.

14 How to Break into a Tight
Crowd

The woman you've decided you MUST meet is wearing
no Whatzit? Can't find the host for the Whoozat
technique? To make matters worse, she's deep in
conversation with a group of her friends. Seems quite
hopeless that you will maneuver a meeting, doesn't it?
You can't just say, "Excuse me, I just thought I'd
eavesdrop in and say ‘Hello.

No obstacle blocks the resolute politician, who
always has a trick or ten up his or her sleeve. A politico
would resort to the "Eavesdrop In" technique.
Eavesdropping, of course, conjures images of
clandestine activities—wiretapping, Watergate break-
ins, or spies skulking around in the murky shadows.
Eavesdropping has historical precedent with politicians
so, in a pinch, it naturally comes to mind.

At parties, stand near the group of people you wish to
infiltrate. Then wait for a word or two you can use as a
wedge to break into the group. "Excuse me, I couldn't
help overhearing that you . . ." and then whatever is
relevant here. For example "I couldn't help overhearing
your discussion of Bermuda. I'm going there next
month for the first time. Any suggestions?"

Now you are in the circle and can direct your
comments to your intended.

Ds)
TECHNIQUE #14
EAVESDROP IN

No Whatzit? No host for Whoozat? No problem!
Just sidle up behind the swarm of folks you want to
infiltrate and open your ears. Wait for any flimsy
excuse and jump in with "Excuse me, I couldn't help
but overhear. . . ."

Will they be taken aback? Momentarily.
Will they get over it? Momentarily.
Will you be in the conversation? Absolutely!

Let us now hop back on the train that first explored
Small Talk City and travel to the land of Meaningful
Communicating.

15 How to Make "Where Are
You From?" Sound
Exciting

You wouldn't dream of going to a party naked. And I
hope you wouldn't dream of letting your conversation
be exposed naked and defenseless against the two
inevitable assaults "Where are you from?" and "What
do you do?"

When asked these questions, most people, like
clunking a frozen steak on a china platter, drop a brick
of frozen geography or baffling job title on the asker's
conversational platter. Then they slap on the muzzle.

You're at a convention. Everyone you meet will, of
course, ask "And where are you from?" When you give
them the short-form naked-city answer "Oh, I'm from
Muscatine, Iowa" (or Millinocket, Maine; Winnemucca,
Nevada; or anywhere they haven't heard of), what can
you expect except a blank stare? Even if you're a
relatively big city slicker from Denver, Colorado;
Detroit, Michigan; or San Diego, California, you'll
receive a panicked look from all but American history
professors. They're rapidly racking their brains thinking
"What do I say next?" Even the names of world-class
burgs like New York, Chicago, Washington, and Los
Angeles inspire less-than-riveting responses. When I
tell people I'm from New York City, what are they
expected to say? "Duh, seen any good muggings
lately?"

Ds)
Do humanity and yourself a favor. Never, ever, give
just a one-sentence response to the question, "Where are
you from?" Give the asker some fuel for his tank, some
fodder for his trough. Give the hungry communicator
something to conversationally nibble on. All it takes is
an extra sentence or two about your city—some
interesting fact, some witty observation—to hook the
asker into the conversation.

Several months ago, a trade association invited me to
be its keynote speaker on networking and teaching
people to be better conversationalists. Just before my
speech, I was introduced to Mrs. Devlin, who was the
head of the association.

"How do you do?" she asked.
"How do you do?" I replied.

Then Mrs. Devlin smiled, anxiously awaiting a
sample of my stimulating conversational expertise. I
asked her where she was from. She plunked a frozen
"Columbus, Ohio" and a big expectant grin on my
platter. I had to quickly thaw her answer into digestible
conversation. My mind thrashed into action. Leil's
thought pattern: "Gulp, Columbus, Ohio. I've never
been there, hmm. Criminy, what do I know about
Columbus? I know a fellow named Jeff, a successful
speaker who lives there. But Columbus is too big to ask
if she knows him . . . and besides only kids play the
"Do-you-know-so-and-so' game." My panicked silent
search continued. "I think it's named after Christopher
Columbus . . . but I'm not sure, so I better keep my
mouth shut on that one." Four or five other possibilities
raced through my mind but I rejected them all as too
obvious, too adolescent, or too off-the-wall.

I realized by now that seconds had passed, and Mrs.
Devlin was still standing there with a slowly dissipating
smile on her face. She was waiting for me (the "expert"
who, within the hour, was expected to teach her trade
association lessons on scintillating conversation) to
spew forth words of wit or wisdom.

"Oh, Columbus, gee," I mumbled in desperation,
watching her face fall into the worried expression of a
patient being asked by the surgeon, knife poised in
hand, "Where's your appendix?"

I never came up with stimulating conversation on
Columbus. But, just then, under the knife, I created the
following technique for posterity. I call it "Never the
Naked City."

TECHNIQUE #15
NEVER THE NAKED CITY

Whenever someone asks you the inevitable, "And
where are you from?" never, ever, unfairly challenge
their powers of imagination with a one-word answer.

Learn some engaging facts about your hometown
that conversational partners can comment on. Then,
when they say something clever in response to your
bait, they think you're a great conversationalist.

Different Bait for Shrimp or Sharks
A fisherman uses different bait to bag bass or bluefish.
And you will obviously throw out different
conversational bait to snag simple shrimp or
sophisticated sharks. Your hook should relate to the type
of person you're speaking with. I'm originally from
Washington, D.C. If someone at, say, an art gallery
asked me where I was from, I might answer
"Washington, D.C.—designed, you know, by the same
city planner who designed Paris." This opens the
conversational possibilities to the artistry of city
planning, Paris, other cities' plans, European travel, and
so forth.

At a social party of singles I'd opt for another answer.
"I'm from Washington, D.C. The reason I left is there
were seven women to every man when I was growing
up." Now the conversation can turn to the ecstasy or
agony of being single, the perceived lack of desirable
men everywhere, or even flirtatious possibilities.

In a political group, I'd cast a current fact from the
constantly evolving political face of Washington. No
need to speculate on the multitude of conversational
possibilities that unlocks.

Where do you get your conversational bait? Start by
phoning the chamber of commerce or historical society
of your town. Search the World Wide Web and click on
your town, or open an old-fashioned encyclopedia—all
rich sources for future stimulating conversations. Learn
some history, geography, business statistics, or perhaps
a few fun facts to tickle future friends' funny bones.

The Devlin debacle inspired further research. The
minute I got home, I called the Columbus chamber of

@ AQ

commerce and the historical society. Say you, too, are
from Columbus, Ohio, and your new acquaintance lays
it on you: "Where are you from?" When you are talking
with a businessperson, your answer could be, "I'm from
Columbus, Ohio. You know many major corporations
do their product testing in Columbus because it's so
commercially typical. In fact, it's been called 'the most
American city in America.' They say if it booms or
bombs in Columbus, it booms or bombs nationally."

Talking with someone with a German last name? Tell
her about Columbus's historic German Village with the
brick streets and the wonderful 1850s-style little houses.
It's bound to inspire stories of the old country. Your
conversation partner's surname is Italian? Tell him
Genoa, Italy, is Columbus's sister city.

Talking with an American history buff? Tell him that
Columbus was, indeed, named after Christopher
Columbus and that a replica of the Santa Maria is
anchored in the Scioto River. Talking with a student?
Tell her about the five universities in Columbus.

The possibilities continue. You suspect your
conversation partner has an artistic bent? "Ah," you
throw out casually, "Columbus is the home of artist
George Bellows."

Columbusites, prepare some tasty snacks for askers
even if you know nothing about them. Here's a goodie.
Tell them you always have to say "Columbus, Ohio"
because there is also a Columbus, Arkansas; Columbus,
Georgia; Columbus, Indiana; Columbus, Kansas;
Columbus, Kentucky; Columbus, Mississippi;
Columbus, Montana; Columbus, Nebraska; Columbus,
New Jersey; Columbus, New Mexico; Columbus, North

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
Carolina; Columbus, North Dakota; Columbus,
Pennsylvania; Columbus, Texas; and Columbus,
Wisconsin. That spreads the conversational possibilities
to fifteen other states. Remember, as a quotable notable
once said, "No man would listen to you talk if he didn't
know it was his turn next."

A postscript to the hellish experience I had with
Columbus. Months later, I mentioned the trauma to my
speaker friend from Columbus, Jeff. Jeff explained his
house was really in a smaller town just minutes outside
Columbus.

"What town, Jeff?"

"Gahanna, Ohio. Gahanna means ‘hell' in Hebrew,"
he said, and then went on to explain why he thought
ancient Hebrew historians were clairvoyant.

Thanks, Jeff, I knew you'd never lay a naked city on
any of your listeners.

16 How to Come Out a
Winner Every Time They
Ask, "And What Do You
Do?"

Third only to death and taxes is the assurance a new
acquaintance will soon chirp, "And what do you do?"
(Is it fitting and proper they should make that query?
We'll pick up that sticky wicket later.) For the moment,
these few defensive moves help you keep your
crackerjack communicator credentials when asked the
inevitable question.

First, like Never the Naked City, don't toss a short-
shrift answer in response to the asker's breathless
inquiry. You leave the poor fish flopping on the deck
when you just say your title: "I'm an actuary/an
auditor/an author/an astrophysicist." Have mercy so he
or she doesn't feel like a nincompoop outsider asking,
"What, er, kind of actuizing (auditing, authoring, or
astrophysizing) do you do?"

You're an attorney. Don't leave it to laymen to try to
figure out what you really do. Flesh it out. Tell a little
story your conversation partner can get a handle on. For
example, if you're talking with a young mother say, "I'm
an attorney. Our firm specializes in employment law. In
fact, now I'm involved in a case where a com-
TECHNIQUE #16
NEVER THE NAKED JOB

When asked the inevitable "And what do you do,"
you may think "I'm an economist/an educator/an
engineer" is giving enough information to engender
good conversation. However, to one who is not an
economist, educator, or an engineer, you might as
well be saying "I'm a
paleontologist/psychoanalyst/pornographer."

Flesh it out. Throw out some delicious facts about
your job for new acquaintances to munch on.
Otherwise, they'll soon excuse themselves,
preferring the snacks back at the cheese tray.

pany actually discharged a woman for taking extra
maternity leave that was a medical necessity." A mother
can relate to that.

Talking with a business owner? Say "I'm an attorney.
Our firm specializes in employment law. My current
case concerns an employer who is being sued by one of
her staff for asking personal questions during the initial
job interview." A business owner can relate to that.

Painful Memories of Naked Job Flashers

I still harbor painful recollections of being tongue-tied
when confronted by naked job flashers. Like the time a
fellow at a dinner party told me, "I'm a nuclear

@ AQ

scientist." My weak "Oh, that must be fascinating"
reduced me to a mental molecule in his eyes.

The chap on my other side announced, "I'm in
industrial abrasives," and then paused, waiting for me to
be impressed. My "Well, er, golly, you must have to be
a shrewd judge of character to be in industrial
abrasives" didn't fly either. We three sat in silence the
rest of the meal.

Just last month a new acquaintance bragged, "I'm
planning to teach Tibetan Buddhism at Truckee
Meadows Community College," and then clammed up.
I knew less about Truckee Meadows than I did about
Tibetan Buddhism. Whenever people ask you what you
do, give them some mouth-to-ear resuscitation so they
can catch their breath and say something.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
17 How to Introduce People
Like the Host(ess) with
the Most(est)

It is important to help "newlymets" through their first
nervous moments.

"Susan, I'd like you to meet John Smith. John, this is
Susan Jones." Duh, what do you expect John and Susan
to say?

"Smith? Umm, that's S-M-I-T-H, isn't it?"

"Uh, er, golly, Susan, well, now, there's an interesting
name."

Nice-try-forget-it. Don't blame John or Susan for
being less than scintillating. The fault lies with the
person who introduced the two the way most people
introduce their friends to each other—with naked
names. They cast out a line with no bait for people to
sink their teeth into.

Big winners may not talk a lot, but conversation
never dies unwillingly in their midst. They make sure of
it with techniques like "Never the Naked Introduction."
When they introduce people, they buy an insurance
policy on the conversation with a few simple add-ons:
"Susan, I'd like you to meet John. John has a wonderful
boat we took a trip on last summer. John, this is Susan
Smith. Susan is editor in chief of Shoestring Gourmet
magazine."

Ds)
Padding the introduction gives Susan the opportunity
to ask what kind of boat John has or where the group
went. It gives John an opening to discuss his love of
writing. Or of cooking. Or of food. The conversation
can then naturally expand to travel in general, life on
boats, past vacations, favorite recipes, restaurants,
budgets, diets, magazines, editorial policy—to infinity.

TECHNIQUE #17
NEVER THE NAKED INTRODUCTION

When introducing people, don't throw out an
unbaited hook and stand there grinning like a big
clam, leaving the newlymets to flutter their fins and
fish for a topic. Bait the conversational hook to get
them in the swim of things. Then you're free to stay
or float on to the next networking opportunity.

If you're not comfortable mentioning someone's job
during the introduction, mention their hobby or even a
talent. The other day at a gathering, the hostess
introduced a man named Gilbert. She said, "Leil, I'd like
you to meet Gilbert. Gilbert's gift is sculpting. He
makes beautiful wax carvings." I remember thinking,
"Gift—now that's a lovely way to introduce someone
and induce conversation."

Armed with these two personality enhancers, three
conversation igniters, and three small extenders, it is
time to take a step up the communications ladder. Let us
now rise from small talk and seek the path to more
meaningful dialogue. The next technique is guaranteed

to make the exchange engrossing for your conversation
partner.
18 How to Resuscitate a
Dying Conversation

Even a well-intentioned husband who might ask his
wife while making love, "Is it good for you, too,
Honey?" knows not to ask a colleague, "Is the
conversation good for you, too?" Yet he wonders . . . we
all do. With the following technique, set your mind at
rest. You can definitely make the conversation hot for
anyone with whom you speak. Like my prom date,
Donnie, you will miraculously find subjects to engross
your listeners.

Be a Sleuth on Their Slips of the Tongue

No matter how elusive the clue, Sherlock Holmes is
confident he'll soon be staring right at it through his
magnifying glass. Like the unerring detective, big
winners know, no matter how elusive the clue, they'll
find the right topic. How? They become word
detectives.

I have a young friend, Nancy, who works in a
nursing home. Nancy cares deeply about the elderly but
often grumbles about how crotchety and laconic some
of her patients are. She laments she has difficulty
relating to them.

Nancy told me about one especially cantankerous old
woman named Mrs. Otis, whom she could never get to
open up to her. "One day," Nancy confided, "right after
all those rainstorms we had last week, just to make
conversation, I remarked to Mrs. Otis, 'Terrible storms
we had last week, don't you think?’ Well," Nancy
continued, "Mrs. Otis practically jumped down my
throat. She said in a snippy voice, 'It's been good for the
plants." I asked Nancy how she responded to that.

"What could I say?" Nancy answered. "The woman
was obviously cutting me off."

"Did you ever think to ask Mrs. Otis if she liked
plants?"

"Plants?" Nancy asked.

"Well, yes," I suggested. "Mrs. Otis brought the
subject up." I asked Nancy to do me a favor. "Ask her,"
I begged. Nancy resisted, but I persisted. Just to quiet
me down, Nancy promised to ask "cantankerous old
Mrs. Otis" if she liked plants.

The next day, a flabbergasted Nancy called me from
work. "Leil, how did you know? Not only did Mrs. Otis
love plants, but she told me she'd been married to a
gardener. Today I had a different problem with Mrs.
Otis. I couldn't shut her up! She went on and on about
her garden, her husband. .. ."

Top communicators know ideas don't come out of
nowhere. If Mrs. Otis thought to bring up plants, then
she must have some relationship with them.
Furthermore, by mentioning the word, it meant
subconsciously she wanted to talk about plants.

Suppose, for example, instead of responding to
Nancy's comment about the rain with "It's good for the
plants," Mrs. Otis had said, "Because of the rain, my
dog couldn't go out." Nancy could then ask about her
dog. Or suppose she grumbled, "It's bad for my

@ AQ

arthritis." Can you guess what old Mrs. Otis wants to
talk about now?

When talking with anyone, keep your ears open and,
like a good detective, listen for clues. Be on the lookout
for any unusual references: any anomaly, deviation,
digression, or invocation of another place, time, person.
Ask about it because it's the clue to what your
conversation partner would really enjoy discussing.

If two people have something in common, when the
shared interest comes up, they jump on it naturally. For
example, if someone mentions playing squash (bird-
watching or stamp collecting) and the listener shares
that passion, he or she pipes up, "Oh, you're a squasher
(or birder or philatelist), too!"

Here's the trick: there's no need to be a squasher,
birder, or philatelist to pipe up with enthusiasm. You
can simply "Be a Word Detective." When you pick up
on the reference as though it excites you, too, it parlays
you into conversation the stranger thrills to. (The
subject may put your feet to sleep, but that's another

story.)

TECHNIQUE #18
BE A WORD DETECTIVE

Like a good gumshoe, listen to your conversation
partner's every word for clues to his or her preferred
topic. The evidence is bound to slip out. Then spring
on that subject like a sleuth on to a slip of the

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
@ AQ
ee

Ds)

tongue. Like Sherlock Holmes, you have the clue to

the subject that's hot for the other person. .
SC . 19 How to Enthrall 'Em with
Now that you've ignited stimulating conversation,

let's explore a technique to keep it hot. Your Choice of Topic—
Them!

Several years ago, a girlfriend and I attended a party
saturated with a hodgepodge of swellegant folks.
Everyone we talked to seemed to lead a nifty life.
Discussing the party afterward, I asked my friend,
"Diane, of all the exciting people at the party, who did
you enjoy talking to most?"

Without hesitation she said, "Oh by far, Dan Smith."

"What does Dan do?" I asked her.

"Uh, well, I'm not sure," she answered.

"Where does he live?"

"Uh, I don't know," Diane responded.

"Well, what is he interested in?"

"Well, we really didn't talk about his interests."

"Diane," I asked, "what did you talk about?"

"Well, I guess we talked mostly about me."

"Aha," I thought. Diane has just rubbed noses with a
winner.

As it turns out, I had the pleasure of meeting Big-
Winner Dan several months later. Diane's ignorance
about his life piqued my curiosity so I grilled him for
details. As it turns out, Dan lives in Paris, has a beach
home in the south of France, and a mountain home in
@ AQ

STO OF Op HO

Ds)

the Alps. He travels around the world producing sound When you meet someone, imagine a giant revolving
and light shows for pyramids and ancient ruins—and he spotlight between you. When you're talking, the
is an avid hang glider and scuba diver. Does this man spotlight is on you. When the new person is
have an interesting life or what? Yet Dan, when meeting speaking, it's shining on him or her. If you shine it
Diane, said nothing about himself. brightly enough, the stranger will be blinded to the

I told Dan about how pleased Diane was to meet him fact that you have hardly said a word about yourself.
yet how little she learned about his life. Dan simply The longer you keep it shining away from you, the
replied, "Well, when I meet someone, I learn so much more interesting he or she finds you.

more if I ask about their life. I always try to turn the
spotlight on the other person." Truly confident people
often do this. They know they grow more by listening
than talking. Obviously, they also captivate the talker.

Sell Yourself with a Top Sales Technique

Several months ago at a speaker's convention, I was
talking with a colleague Brian Tracy. Brian does a
brilliant job of training top salespeople. He tells his
students of a giant spotlight that, when shining on their
product, is not as interesting to the prospect. When they
shine the spotlight on the prospect, they make the sale.

Salespeople, this technique is especially crucial for
you. Keep your "Swiveling Spotlight" aimed away from
you, only lightly on your product, and most brightly on
your buyer. You'll do a much better job of selling
yourself and your product.

TECHNIQUE #19
THE SWIVELING SPOTLIGHT
20 How to Never Need to
Wonder, "What Do I Say
Next?"

Moments arise, of course, when even conversationalists
extraordinaire hit the wall. Some folks' monosyllabic
grunts leave slim pickings even for masters of the Be a
Word Detective technique.

If you find yourself futilely fanning the embers of a
dying conversation (and if you feel for political reasons
or human compassion that the conversation should
continue), here's a foolproof trick to get the fire blazing
again. I call it "Parroting" after that beautiful tropical
bird that captures everyone's heart simply by repeating
other people's words.

Have you ever, puttering around the house, had the
TV in the background tuned to a tennis game? You hear
the ball going back and forth over the net—klink-klunk,
klink-klunk, klink . . . this time you don't hear the
klunk. The ball didn't hit the court. What happened?
You immediately look up at the set.

Likewise in conversation, the conversational ball
goes back and forth. First you speak, then your partner
speaks, you speak . . . and so it goes, back and forth.
Each time, through a series of nods and comforting
grunts like "um hum," or "umm," you let your
conversation partner know the ball has landed in your

Ds)
court. It's your "I got it" signal. Such is the rhythm of
conversation.

"What Do I Say Next?"

Back to that frightfully familiar moment when it is your
turn to speak but your mind goes blank. Don't panic.
Instead of signaling verbally or nonverbally that you
"got it," simply repeat—or parrot—the last two or three
words your companion said, in a sympathetic,
questioning tone. That throws the conversational ball
right back in your partner's court.

My friend Phil sometimes picks me up at the airport.
Usually I am so exhausted that I rudely fall asleep in the
passenger seat, relegating Phil to nothing more than a
chauffeur.

After one especially exhausting trip some years ago,
I flung my bags in his trunk and flopped onto the front
seat. As I was dozing off, he mentioned he'd gone to the
theater the night before. Usually I would have just
grunted and wafted into unconsciousness. However, on
this particular trip, I had learned the Parroting technique
and was eager to try it. "Theater?" I parroted
quizzically.

"Yes, it was a great show," he replied, fully expecting
it to be the last word on the subject before I fell into my
usual sleepy stupor.

"Great show?" I parroted. Pleasantly surprised by my
interest, he said, "Yes, it's a new show by Stephen
Sondheim called Sweeney Todd."

"Sweeney Todd?" I again parroted. Now Phil was
getting fired up. "Yeah, great music and an unbelievably

@ AQ

bizarre story... ."

"Bizarre story?" I parroted. Well, that's all Phil
needed. For the next half an hour, Phil told me the
show's story about a London barber who went around
murdering people. I half dozed, but soon decided his
tale of Sweeney Todd's cutting off peoples' heads was
disturbing my sleepy reverie. So I simply backed up and
parroted one of his previous phrases to get him on
another track.

"You said it had great music?"

That did the trick. For the rest of the forty-five-
minute trip to my home, Phil sang me "Pretty Women,"
"The Best Pies in London," and other songs from
Sweeney Todd—much better accompaniment for my
demi-nap. I'm sure, to this day, Phil thinks of that trip as
one of the best conversations we ever had. And all I did
was parrot a few of his phrases.

TECHNIQUE #20
PARROTING

Never be left speechless again. Like a parrot, simply
repeat the last few words your conversation partner
says. That puts the ball right back in his or her court,
and then all you need to do is listen.

Salespeople, why go on a wild goose chase for a
customer's real objections when it's so easy to shake
them out of the trees with Parroting?

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
Parroting Your Way to Profits

Parroting is also a can opener to pry open people's real
feelings. Star salespeople use it to get to their prospect's
emotional objections, which they often don't even
articulate to themselves. A friend of mine, Paul, a used-
car salesman, told me he credits a recent sale of a
Lamborghini to Parroting.

Paul was walking around the lot with a prospect and
his wife, who had expressed interest in a "sensible car."
He was showing them every sensible Chevy and Ford
on the lot. As they were looking at one very sensible
family car, Paul asked the husband what he thought of
it. "Well," he mused, "I'm not sure this car is right for
me." Instead of moving on to the next sensible car, Paul
parroted "Right for you?" Paul's questioning inflection
signaled the prospect that he needed to say more.

"Well, er, yeah," the prospect mumbled. "I'm not sure
it fits my personality."

"Fits your personality?" Paul again parroted.

"You know, maybe I need something a little more
sporty."

"A little more sporty?" Paul parroted.

"Well, those cars over there look a little more sporty."

Aha! Paul's parrot had ferreted out which cars to
show the customer. As they walked over toward a
Lamborghini on the lot, Paul saw the prospect's eyes
light up. An hour later, Paul had pocketed a fat
commission.

@ AQ

Want to take a rest from talking to save your throat?
This next technique gets your conversation partner off
and running so all you have to do is listen (or even
sneak off unnoticed as he or she chats congenially
away).

yy)

a 7.
21 How to Get 'Em Happily
Chatting (So You Can Slip
Away if You Want To!)

Every father smiles when his little tyke beseeches him
at bedtime, "Daddy, Daddy, tell me the story again of
the three little pigs" (or the dancing princesses or how
you and Mommy met). Daddy knows Junior enjoyed
the story so much the first time, he wants to hear it
again and again.

Junior inspires the following technique called
"Encore!" which serves two purposes. Encore! makes a
colleague feel like a happy dad, and it's a great way to
give dying conversation a heart transplant.

I once worked on a ship that had Italian officers and
mostly American passengers. Each week, the deck
officers were required to attend the captain's cocktail
party. After the captain's address in charmingly broken
English, the officers invariably clumped together
yakking it up in Italian. Needless to say, most of the
passengers' grasp of Italian ended at macaroni,
spaghetti, salami, and pizza.

As cruise director, it fell on my shoulders to get the
officers to mingle with the passengers. My not-so-subtle
tactic was to grab one of the officers' arms and literally
drag him over to a smiling throng of expectant
passengers. I would then introduce the officer and pray
that either the cat would release his tongue, or a

Ds)
passenger would come up with a more original question
than "Gee, if all you officers are here, who is driving the
boat?" Never happened. I dreaded the weekly captain's
cocktail party.

One night, sleeping in my cabin, I was awakened by
the ship rocking violently from side to side. I listened
and the engines were off. A bad sign. I grabbed my robe
and raced up to the deck. Through the dense fog, I could
barely discern another ship not half a mile from us. Five
or six officers were grasping the starboard guardrail and
leaning overboard. I rushed over just in time to see a
man in the moonlight with a bandage over one eye
struggling up our violently rocking ladder. The officers
immediately whisked him off to our ship's hospital. The
engines started again and we were on our way.

The next morning I got the full story. A laborer on
the other ship, a freighter, had been drilling a hole in an
engine cylinder. While he was working, a sharp, needle-
thin piece of metal shot like a missile into his right eye.
The freighter had no doctor on board so the ship
broadcast an emergency signal.

International sea laws dictate that any ship hearing a
distress signal must respond. Our ship came to the
rescue and the seaman, clutching his bleeding eye, was
lowered into a lifeboat that brought him to our ship. Dr.
Rossi, our ship's doctor, was successfully able to
remove the needle from the workman's eye, thus saving
his eyesight.

"Tell 'Em About the Time You..."

@ AQ

Cut to the next captain's cocktail party. Once again I
was faced with the familiar challenge of getting officers
to mingle and make small talk with the passengers. I
made my weekly trek to the laconic officers' throng to
drag one or two away and, this time, my hand fell on
the arm of the ship's doctor. I hauled him over to the
nearest group of grinning passengers and introduced
him. I then said, "Just last week Dr. Rossi saved the
eyesight of a seaman on another ship after a dramatic
midnight rescue. Dr. Rossi, I'm sure these folks would
love to hear about it."

It was like a magic wand. To my amazement, it was
as though Dr. Rossi was blessed instantly with the
tongues of angels. His previously monosyllabic broken
English became thickly accented eloquence. He
recounted the entire story for the growing group of
passengers gathering around him. I left the throng that
Dr. Rossi enraptured to pull another officer over to an
awaiting audience.

I grabbed the captain's stripe-covered arm, dragged
him over to another pack of smiling passengers and
said, "Captain Cafiero, why don't you tell these folks
about the dramatic midnight rescue you made last
week?" The cat released Cafiero's tongue and he was off
and running.

Back to the throng to get the first officer for the next
group. By now I knew I had a winner. "Signor Salvago,
why don't you tell these folks how you awakened the
captain at midnight last week for the dramatic midnight
rescue?"

By then it was time to go back to extract the ship's
doctor from the first bevy and take him to his next pack

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
of passengers. It worked even better the second time.
He happily commenced his Encore! for the second
audience. As he chatted away, I raced back to the
captain to pull him away for a second telling with
another throng. I felt like the circus juggler who keeps
all the plates spinning on sticks. Just as I got one
conversation spinning, I had to race back to the first
speaker to give him a whirl at another audience.

The captain's cocktail parties were a breeze for me
for the rest of the season. The three officers loved
telling the same story of their heroism to new people
every cruise. The only problem was I noticed the stories
getting longer and more elaborate each time. I had to
adjust my timing in getting them to do a repeat
performance for the next audience.

Play It Again, Sam

"Encore!" is what appreciative audiences chant when
they want another song from the singer, another dance
from the dancer, another poem from the poet, and in my
case, another storytelling from the officers. Encore! is
the technique you can use to request a repeat story from
a prospect, potential employer, or valued acquaintance.
While the two of you are chatting with a group of
people, simply turn to him and say, "John, I bet
everyone would love to hear about the time you caught
that thirty-pound striped bass." Or, "Susan, tell
everyone that story you just told me of how you rescued
the kitten from the tree." He or she will, of course,
demure. Insist! Your conversation partner is secretly
loving it. The subtext of your request is "That story of
yours was so terrific, I want my other friends to hear it."

@ AQ

After all, only crowd pleasers are asked to do an
Encore!

TECHNIQUE #21
ENCORE!

The sweetest sound a performer can hear welling up
out of the applause is "Encore! Encore! Let's hear it
again!" The sweetest sound your conversation
partner can hear from your lips when you're talking
with a group of people is "Tell them about the time
you..."

Whenever you're at a meeting or party with
someone important to you, think of some stories he
or she told you. Choose an appropriate one from
their repertoire that the crowd will enjoy. Then shine
the spotlight by requesting a repeat performance.

The added benefit of this technique is that, once
you've got them up and running with their conversation,
you can sneak off and find more interesting company!

One word of warning: make sure the story you
request is one in which the teller shines. No one wants
to retell the time they lost the sale, cracked up the car,
or broke up the bar and spent the night in jail. Make
sure your requested Encore! is a positive story where
they come out the big winner, not the buffoon.

The full beauty of this technique will hit you like a
happy thunderbolt the first time you use it with
someone who is telling a long and wearisome tale. You

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
simply tiptoe away and let the bore spin the story on
and on with your friend. (Of course, your friend may
never speak to you again. But that's not germaine to this
chapter!)

The next technique deals with sharing some positive
stories of your life.

@ AQ

22 How to Come Across as a
Positive Person

Often people think when they meet someone they like,
they should share a secret, reveal an intimacy, or make a
confession of sorts to show they are human too. Airing
your youthful battle with bed-wetting, teeth grinding, or
thumb sucking—or your present struggle with gout or a
goiter—supposedly endears you to the masses.

Well, sometimes it does. One study showed that if
someone is above you in stature, their revealing a foible
brings them closer to you.!2 The holes in the bottom of
presidential candidate Adlai Stevenson's shoes charmed
a nation, as did George H. W. Bush's shocking
admission that he couldn't stomach broccoli.

If you're on sure footing, say a superstar who wants
to become friends with a fan, go ahead and tell your
devotees about the time you were out of work and
penniless. But if you're not a superstar, better play it
safe and keep the skeletons in the closet until later.
People don't know you well enough to put your foible in
context.

Later in a relationship, telling your new friend you've
been thrice married, you got caught shoplifting as a
teenager, and you got turned down for a big job may be
no big deal. And that may be the extent of what could
be construed as black marks on an otherwise flawless
life of solid relationships, no misdemeanors, and an
impressive professional record. But very early in a

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
relationship, the instinctive reaction is "What else is
coming? If he shares that with me so quickly, what else
is he hiding? A closetful of ex-spouses, a criminal
record, walls papered with rejection letters?" Your new
acquaintance has no way of knowing your confession
was a generous act, a well-intentioned revelation, on
your part.

TECHNIQUE #22
AC-CEN-TU-ATE THE POS-I-TIVE

When first meeting someone, lock your closet door
and save your skeletons for later. You and your new
good friend can invite the skeletons out, have a good
laugh, and dance over their bones later in the
relationship. But now's the time, as the old song
says, to "ac-cen-tu-ate the pos-i-tive and elim-i-nate
the neg-a-tive."

So far, in this section, you have found assertive
methods for meeting people and mastering small talk.
The next is both an assertive and defensive move to
help spare you that pasty smile we tend to sport when
we have no idea what people are talking about.

@ AQ

23 How to Always Have
Something Interesting to
Say

You've heard folks whine, "I can't go to the party, I
haven't got a thing to wear." When was the last time you
heard, "I can't go to the party, I haven't got a thing to
say?"

When going to a gathering with great networking
possibilities, you naturally plan your outfit and make
sure your shoes will match. And, of course, you must
have just the right tie or correct color lipstick. You puff
your hair, pack your business cards, and you're off.

Whoa! Wait a minute. Didn't you forget the most
important thing? What about the right conversation to
enhance your image? Are you actually going to say
anything that comes to mind—or doesn't—at the
moment? You wouldn't don the first outfit your groping
hand hits in the darkened closet, so you shouldn't leave
your conversing to the first thought that comes to mind
when facing a group of expectant, smiling faces. You
will, of course, follow your instincts in conversation.
But at least be prepared in case inspiration doesn't hit.

The best way to ensure you're conversationally in the
swing of things is to listen to a newscast just before you
leave. What's happening right now in the world—all the
fires, floods, air disasters, toppled governments, and
stock market crashes—pulverizes into great

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
conversational fodder, no matter what crowd you're
circulating in.

It is with some embarrassment that I must attribute
the following technique to a businesswoman in the
world's oldest profession. For a magazine article I was
writing, I interviewed one of the savviest operators in
her field, Sidney Biddle Barrows, the famed Mayflower
Madam.

TECHNIQUE #23

THE LATEST NEWS ..
HOME WITHOUT IT

. DON'T LEAVE

The last move to make before leaving for the party
—even after you've given yourself final approval in
the mirror—is to turn on the radio news or scan your
newspaper. Anything that happened today is good
material. Knowing the big-deal news of the moment
is also a defensive move that rescues you from
putting your foot in your mouth by asking what
everybody's talking about. Foot-in-mouth is not very
tasty in public, especially when it's surrounded by
egg-on-face.

Sidney told me she had a house rule when she was in
business. All of her female "independent contractors"
were directed to keep up with the daily news so they
could be good conversationalists with their clients. This
was not just Sidney's whim. Feedback from her
employees had revealed that 60 percent of her girls'
work hour was spent in chatting and only 40 percent in

@ AQ

satisfying the customers’ needs. Thus she instructed
them to read the daily newspaper or listen to a radio
broadcast before leaving for an appointment. Sidney
told me when she initiated this rule, her business
increased significantly. Reports came back from her
clients complimenting her on the fascinating women she
had working for her. The consummate businesswoman,
Ms. Barrows always strove to exceed her customers'
expectations.

Ready for the big leagues of conversation? Let's go.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
PART THREE
HOW TO TALK LIKE A VIP

Welcome to the human jungle. When two tigers
prowling through the jungle chance upon one another in
a clearing, they look at each other. They freeze.
Instinctively they calculate, "If our staring came to
hissing—came to scratching—came to clawing—who
would win? Which of us has the stronger survival
skills?"

Tigers in the wilderness differ little from the urban
upright animals inhabiting the corporate jungle (or
singles jungle or social jungle). Humans start the
process by looking at each other and talking. In the
business world, while smiling and uttering "How do
you do?" "Hello," "Howdy," or "Hi," they are, like
tigers, instinctively, instantaneously, sizing each other
up.

They're not calculating the length of each other's
claws or the sharpness of their teeth. They're judging
each other on a weapon far more powerful to survival as
they have defined it. Humans are judging each other's
communications skills. Although they may not know
the names of the specific studies first proving it, they
sense the truth: 85 percent of one's success in life is
directly due to communications skills.“

They may not be familiar with the U.S. Census
Bureau's recent survey showing employers choose
candidates with good communications skills and
attitude way over education, experience, and training.14

Ds)
But they know communications skills get people to the
top. Thus, by observing each other carefully during
casual conversing, it becomes almost immediately
evident to both which is the bigger cat in the human
jungle.

It doesn't take long for people to recognize who is an
"important" person. One cliché, one insensitive remark,
one overanxious reaction, and you can be professionally
or personally demoted. You can lose a potentially
important friendship or business contact. One stupid
move and you can tumble off the corporate or social
ladder.

The techniques in this section will help ensure that
you make all the right moves so this doesn't happen.
The following communications skills give you a leg up
to start your ascent to the top of any ladder you choose.

@ AQ

24 How to Find Out What
They Do (Without Even
Asking!)

To size each other up, the first question little cats flat-
pawedly ask each other is, "And what do you do?
Hmm?" Then they crouch there, quivering their
whiskers and twitching their noses, with an obvious
"I'm going to pronounce silent judgment on you after
you answer" look on their pusses.

Big cats never ask outright, "What do you do?" (Oh
they find out, all right, in a much more subtle manner.)
By not asking the question, the big boys and big girls
come across as more principled, even spiritual. "After
all," their silence says, "a man or woman is far more
than his or her job."

Resisting the tempting question also shows their
sensitivity. With so much downsizing, rightsizing, and
capsizing of corporations these days, the blunt
interrogation evokes uneasiness. The job question is not
just unpleasant for those who are "between
engagements." I have several gainfully employed
friends who hate being asked, "And what do you do?"
(One of these folks cuts cadavers for autopsies, the
other is an IRS collection agent.)

Additionally, millions of talented and accomplished
women have chosen to devote themselves to
motherhood. When the cruel corporate question is thrust

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
at them, they feel guilty. The rude interrogation belittles
their commitment to their families. No matter how the
women answer, they fear the asker is only going to hear
a humble "I'm just a housewife."

Big boys and big girls should avoid asking, "What do
you do?" for another reason: their abstinence from the
question leads listeners to believe that they are in the
habit of soaring with a high-flying crowd. Recently I
attended a posh party on Easy Street. (I suspect they
invited me as their token working-class person.) I
noticed no one was asking anyone what they did—
because these swells didn't do anything. Oh, some
might have a ticker tape on the bed table of their
mansion to track investments. But they definitely did
not work for a living.

The final benefit to not asking, "What do you do?" is
it throws people off guard. It convinces them you are
enjoying their company for who they are, not for any
crass networking reason.

TECHNIQUE #24
WHAT DO YOU DO—NOT!

A sure sign you're a Somebody is the conspicuous
absence of the question, "What do you do?" (You
determine this, of course, but not with those four
dirty words that label you as either a ruthless
networker, a social climber, a gold-digging husband
or wife hunter, or someone who's never strolled
along Easy Street.)

@ AQ

The Right Way to Find Out

So how do you find out what someone does for a
living? (I thought you'd never ask.) You simply practice
the following eight words. All together now: "How...
do... you...spend...most...of... your... time?"

"How do you spend most of your time?" is the
gracious way to let a cadaver cutter, a tax collector, or a
capsized employee off the hook. It's the way to
reinforce an accomplished mother's choice. It's the way
to assure a spiritual soul you see his or her inner beauty.
It's a way to suggest to a swell that you reside on Easy
Street, too.

Now, suppose you've just made the acquaintance of
someone who does like to talk about his or her work?
Asking, "How do you spend most of your time?" also
opens the door for workaholics to spout off, "Oh golly,"
they mock moan, "I just spend all my time working."
That, of course, is your invitation to grill them for
details. (Then they'll talk your ear off.) Yet the new
wording of your question gives those who are
somewhere between "at leisure" and "work addicted"
the choice of telling you about their job or not. Finally,
asking "How do you spend most of your time?" instead
of "And what do you do?" gives you your big cat stripes
right off.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
25 How to Know What to
Say When They Ask,
"What Do You Do?"

Now, 99 percent of the people you meet will, of course,
ask "And what do you do?" Big winners, realizing
someone will always ask, are fully prepared for the
interrogation.

Many folks have one written résumé for job seeking.
They type it up and then trudge off to the printer to get a
nice neat stack to send to all prospective employers.
The résumé lists their previous positions, dates of
employment, and education. Then, at the bottom, they
might as well have scribbled, "Well, that's me. Take it or
leave it." And usually they get left. Why? Because
prospective employers do not find enough specific
points in the résumé that relate directly to what their
firm is seeking.

Boys and girls in the big leagues, however, have bits
and bytes of their entire work experience tucked away
in their computers. When applying for a job, they punch
up only the appropriate data and print it out so it looks
like it just came from the printer.

My friend Roberto was out of work last year. He
applied for two positions:a sales manager of an ice
cream company and head of strategic planning for a
fast-food chain. He did extensive research and found the
ice cream company had deep sales difficulties and the

Ds)
food chain had long-range international aspirations. Did
he send the same résumé to each? Absolutely not. His
résumé never deviated one iota from the truth of his
background. However, for the ice cream company, he
highlighted his experience turning a small company
around by doubling its sales in three years. For the food
chain, he underscored his experience working in Europe
and his knowledge of foreign markets.

Both firms offered Roberto the job. Now he could
play them off against each other. He went to each,
explaining he'd like to work for them but another firm
was offering a higher salary or more perks. The two
firms started bidding against each other for Roberto. He
finally chose the food chain at almost double the salary
they originally offered him.

To make the most of every encounter, personalize
your verbal résumé with just as much care as you would
your written curriculum vitae. Instead of having one
answer to the omnipresent "What do you do?" prepare a
dozen or so variations, depending on who's asking. For
optimum networking, every time someone asks about
your job, give a calculated oral résumé in a nutshell.
Before you submit your answer, consider what possible
interest the asker could have in you and your work.

"Here's How My Life Can Benefit
Yours"

Top salespeople talk extensively of the "benefit
statement." They know, when talking with a potential
client, they should open their conversation with a
benefit statement. When my colleague Brian makes

@ AQ

cold calls, instead of saying "Hello, my name is Brian
Tracy. I'm a sales trainer," he says, "Hello, my name is
Brian Tracy from the Institute for Executive
Development. Would you be interested in a proven
method that can increase your sales from 20 to 30
percent over the next twelve months?" That is his
benefit statement. He highlights the specific benefits of
what he has to offer to his prospect.

My hairdresser Gloria, I discovered, gives a terrific
benefit statement to everyone she meets. That's
probably why she has so many clients. In fact, that's
how she got me as a client. When I met Gloria at a
convention, she told me she was a hairdresser who
specialized in flexible hairstyles for the businesswoman.
She casually mentioned she has many clients who
choose a conservative hairstyle for work that they can
instantly convert to a feminine style for social
situations. "Hey, that's me," I said to myself, fingering
my stringy little ponytail. I asked for her card and
Gloria became my hairdresser.

Then, several months later, I happened to see Gloria
at another event. I overheard her chatting with a stylish
grey-haired woman at the buffet table. Gloria was
saying ". . . and we specialize in a wonderful array of
blue rinses." Now that was news to me! I didn't
remember seeing one grey head in her salon.

As I was leaving the party, Gloria was out on the
lawn talking animatedly with the host's teenage
daughters. "Oh yeah," she was saying, "like we
specialize in these really cool up-to-the-minute styles."
Good for you, Gloria!

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
Like Gloria the hairdresser, give your response a
once-over before answering the inevitable "What do
you do?" When someone asks, never give just a one-
word answer. That's for forms. If business networking is
on your mind, ask yourself, "How could my
professional experience benefit this person's life?" For
example, here are some descriptions various people
might put on their tax return:

Real estate agent
Financial planner
Martial arts instructor
Cosmetic surgeon

Hairdresser

Any practitioner of the above professions should
reflect on the benefit his or her job has to humankind.
(Every job has some benefit or you wouldn't get paid to
do it.) The advice to the folks above is

Don't say "real estate agent." Say "I help people
moving into our area find the right home."

Don't say "financial planner." Say "I help people
plan their financial future."

Don't say "martial arts instructor." Say "I help
people defend themselves by teaching martial arts."

Don't say "cosmetic surgeon." Say "I reconstruct
people's faces after disfiguring accidents." (Or, if
you're talking with a woman "of a certain age," as
the French so gracefully say, tell her, "I help people
to look as young as they feel through cosmetic
surgery.")

@ AQ

Don't say "hairdresser." Say "I help a woman find
the right hairstyle for her particular face." (Go,
Gloria!)

Putting the benefit statement in your verbal "Nutshell
Résumé" brings your job to life and makes it
memorable. Even if your new acquaintance can't use
your services, the next time he or she meets someone
moving into the area, wanting to plan their financial
future, thinking of self defense, considering cosmetic
surgery, or needing a new hairstyle, who comes to
mind? Not the unimaginative people who gave the tax-
return description of their jobs, but the big winners who
painted a picture of helping people with needs.

A Nutshell Résumé for Your Private Life

The Nutshell Résumé works in nonbusiness situations,
too. Since the new acquaintances will always ask you
about yourself, prepare a few exciting stock answers.
When meeting a potential friend or loved one, make
your life sound like you will be a fun person to know.

As a young girl, I wrote novels in my mind about my
life. "Leil, squinting her eyes against the torrential
downpour, bravely reached out the window into the icy
storm to pull the shutters tight and keep the family safe
from the approaching hurricane." Big deal—Mama
asked me to close the windows when it started to rain.
Still, marching toward the open window, I fancied
myself the family's brave savior.

You don't need to be quite so melodramatic in your
self-image, but at least punch up your life to sound
interesting and dedicated.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
TECHNIQUE #25
THE NUTSHELL RESUME

Just as job-seeking top managers roll a different
written résumé off their printers for each position
they're applying for, let a different true story about
your professional life roll off your tongue for each
listener. Before responding to "What do you do?"
ask yourself, "What possible interest could this
person have in my answer? Could he refer business
to me? Buy from me? Hire me? Marry my sister?
Become my buddy?"

Wherever you go, pack a nutshell about your own
life to work into your communications bag of tricks.

26 How to Sound Even
Smarter Than You Are

Did you ever hear someone try to say a word that was
just too darn big for his tongue? By the smile on the
speaker's face and the gleam in his eye as the word
limped off his lips, you knew he was really proud of it.
(To make matters worse, he probably used the word
incorrectly, inappropriately, and maybe even
mispronounced it. Ouch.)

The world perceives people with rich vocabularies to
be more creative, more intelligent. People with larger
vocabularies get hired quicker, promoted faster, and
listened to a whole lot more. So big winners use rich,
full words, but they never sound inappropriate. The
phrases slide gracefully off their tongues to enrich their
conversation. The words fit. With the care that they
choose their tie or their blouse, big players in life
choose words to match their personalities and their
points.

The startling good news is that the difference
between a respected vocabulary and a mundane one is
only about fifty words! You don't need much to sound
like a big winner. A mere few dozen wonderful words
will give everyone the impression that you have an
original and creative mind.

Acquiring this super vocabulary is easy. You needn't
pore over vocabulary books or listen to tapes of
pompous pontificators with impossible British accents.

Ds)
You don't need to learn two-dollar words that your
grandmother, if she heard, would wash out of your
mouth with soap.

All you need to do is think of a few tired,
overworked words you use every day—words like
smart, nice, pretty, or good. Then grab a thesaurus or
book of synonyms off the shelf. Look up that common
word even you are bored hearing yourself utter every
day. Examine your long list of alternatives.

For example, if you turn to the word smart, you'll
find dozens of synonyms. Some words are colorful and
rich like ingenious, resourceful, adroit, shrewd, and
many more. Run down the list and say each out loud.
Which ones fit your personality? Which ones seem right
for you? Try each on like a suit of clothes to see which
feel comfortable. Choose a few favorites and practice
saying them aloud until they become a natural staple of
your vocabulary. The next time you want to compliment
someone on being smart, say, you'll be purring

"Oh, that was so clever of you."
"My how resourceful."
"That was ingenious."

Or maybe, "How astute of you."

And Now, for Men Only

Gentlemen, we women spend a lot of time in front of
the mirror (as if you didn't know). When I was in
college, it used to take me a full fifteen minutes to fix
myself up for a date. Every year since, I've had to add a

@ AQ

few minutes. I'm now up to an hour and a half gussying
myself up for an evening out.

Gentlemen, when your wife comes down the
staircase all dolled up for a night out, or you pick a lady
up for dinner, what do you say? If you make no
comment except, "Well, are you ready to go?" how do
you think that makes the lady feel?

My friend Gary is a nice gentleman and he
occasionally takes me to dinner. I met him about twelve
years ago, and I'll never forget the first time he arrived
on my doorstep for our date. He said, "Leil, you look
great." I adored his reaction!

I saw Gary a month or so later. On my doorstep
again, "Leil, you look great." The precise same words as
the first time, but I still appreciated it.

It's been twelve long years now that this gentleman
and I have been friends. I see him about once every two
months, and every darn time it's the same old comment,
"Leil, you look great." (I think I'll show up one evening
in a flannel nightshirt and a mud pack on my face. I
swear Gary will say, "Leil, you look great.")

During my seminars, to help men avoid Gary's
mistake, I ask every male to think of a synonym for
pretty or great. Then I bring up one woman and several
men. I ask each to pretend he is her husband. She has
just come down the stairs ready to go out to dinner. I
ask each to take her hand and deliver his compliment.

"Darla," one says, "you look elegant."

"Ooh!" Every woman in the room sighs.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
@ AQ

|. oououauauauoioiio

Ds)

"Darla," says another, taking her hand, "you look Look up some common words you use every day in

stunning." the thesaurus. Then, like slipping your feet into a
"Ooh!" Every woman in the room swoons. new pair of shoes, slip your tongue into a few new
words to see how they fit. If you like them, start

"Darla," says the third, putting her hand between his, .
making permanent replacements.

"you look ravishing."

"Ooooh!" By now every woman in the room has Remember, only fifty words makes the difference
gone limp. Pay attention men! Words work on us between a rich, creative vocabulary and an average,
women middle-of-the-road one. Substitute a word a day for

two months and you'll be in the verbally elite.
More Unisex Suggestions

Suppose you've been at a party and it was wonderful.
Don't tell the hosts it was wonderful. Everybody says
that. Tell them it was a splendid party, a superb party, an
extraordinary party. Hug the hosts and tell them you
had a magnificent time, a remarkable time, a glorious
time.

The first few times you say a word like glorious, it
may not roll comfortably off your tongue. Yet you have
no trouble with the word wonderful. Hmm, glor-i-ous
doesn't have any more syllables than won-der-ful.
Neither does it have any more difficult sounds to
pronounce. Vocabulary is all a matter of familiarity. Use
your new favorite words a few times and, just like
breaking in a new pair of shoes, you'll be very
comfortable wearing your glorious new words.

TECHNIQUE #26
YOUR PERSONAL THESAURUS
27 How to Not Sound
Anxious (Let Them
Discover Your Similarity)

Tigers prowl with tigers; lions lurk with lions; and little
alley cats scramble around with other little alley cats.
Similarity breeds attraction. But in the human jungle,
big cats know a secret. When you delay revealing your
similarity, or let them discover it, it has much more
punch. Above all, you don't want to sound anxious to
have rapport.

Whenever someone mentions a common interest or
experience, instead of jumping in with a breathless,
"Hey, me, too! I do that, too" or "I know all about that,"
let your conversation partner enjoy talking about it. Let
her go on about the country club before you tell her
you're a member, too. Let him go on analyzing the golf
swing of Arnold Palmer before you start casually
comparing the swings of golf greats Greg, Jack, Tiger,
and Arnie. Let her tell you how many tennis games
she's won before you just happen to mention your
USTA ranking.

Several years ago, I was telling a new acquaintance
how much I love to ski. He listened with interest as I
indulged in a detailed travelogue of places I'd skied. I
raved about the various resorts. I analyzed the various
conditions. I discussed artificial versus natural snow. It
wasn't until near the end of my monologue that I finally

Ds)
had the sense to ask my new acquaintance if he skied.
He replied, "Yes, I keep a little apartment in Aspen."

Cool! If he'd jumped in and told me about his ski pad
right after I first told him how much I liked skiing, I'd
have been impressed. Mildly. However, waiting until
the end of our conversation—and then revealing he was
such an avid skier that he kept an Aspen ski pad—made
it unforgettable.

Here's the technique I call "Kill the Quick 'Me,
Too!"" Whenever people mention an activity or interest
you share, let them enjoy discussing their passion.
Then, when the time is right, casually mention you
share their interest.

Oh, I Must Have Been Boring You

I waited weeks for the opportunity to try it out. Finally
the moment presented itself at a convention. A new
contact began telling me about her recent trip to
Washington, D.C. (She had no idea that Washington
was where I grew up.) She told me all about the Capitol,
the Washington Monument, the Kennedy Center, and
how she and her husband went bicycling in Rock Creek
Park. (Momentarily I forgot I was keeping my mouth
shut to practice my new technique. I was genuinely
enjoying hearing about these familiar sights from a
visitor's perspective.)

I asked her where she stayed, where she dined, and if
she had a chance to get into any of the beautiful
Maryland or Virginia suburbs. At one point, obviously
pleased by my interest in her trip, she said, "You sound
like you know a lot about Washington."

@ AQ

"Yes," I replied. "It's my hometown, but I haven't
been back there in ages."

"Your hometown!" she squealed. "My goodness, why
didn't you tell me? I must have been boring you."

"Oh, not at all," I replied honestly. "I was enjoying
hearing about your trip so much, I was afraid you'd stop
if I told you." Her big smile and barely audible "Oh
gosh" let me know I had won a new friend.

When someone starts telling you about an activity he
has done, a trip she has made, a club he belongs to, an
interest she has—anything that you share—bite your
tongue. Let the teller relish his or her own monologue.
Relax and enjoy it, too, secretly knowing how much
pleasure your conversation partner will have when you
reveal you share the same experience. Then, when the
moment is ripe, casually disclose your similarity. And
be sure to mention how much you enjoyed hearing
about his or her shared interest.

TECHNIQUE #27
KILL THE QUICK "ME, TOO!"

Whenever you have something in common with
someone, the longer you wait to reveal it, the more
moved (and impressed) he or she will be. You
emerge as a confident big cat, not a lonely little
stray, hungry for quick connection with a stranger.

P.S.: Don't wait too long to reveal your shared
interest or it will seem like you're being tricky.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
28 How to Be a " You-Firstie"
to Gain Their Respect and
Affection

"SEX! Now that I have your attention. . . ." Two-bit
comics have been using that gag from the days when
two bits bought a foursquare meal. However, big
winners know there's a three-letter word more potent
then SEX to get people's attention. That word is YOU.

Why is you such a powerful word? Because when we
were infants, we thought we were the center of the
universe. Nothing mattered but ME, MYSELF, and I.
The rest of the shadowy forms stirring about us (which
we later learned were other people) existed solely for
what they could do for us. Self-centered little tykes that
we were, our tiny brains translated every action, every
word, into, "How does that affect ME?"

Big winners know we haven't changed a bit. Adults
camouflage their self-centeredness under a mask of
civilization and politeness. Yet the human brain still
immediately, instinctively, and unfailingly translates
everything into terms of "How does that affect ME?"

For example, suppose, gentlemen, you want to ask a
colleague, Jill, if she would like to join you for dinner.
So you say to her, "There's a really good new Indian
restaurant in town. Will you join me there for dinner
tonight?"

Ds)
Before answering, Jill is thinking to herself, "By
'good' does he mean the food or the atmosphere or
both?" Her reverie continues, "Indian cuisine, I'm not
sure. He says it's good. However, will I like it?" While
thinking, Jill hesitates. You probably take her hesitation
personally, and the joy of the exchange diminishes.

Suppose, instead, you had said to her, "Jill, you will
really love this new Indian restaurant. Will you join me
there this evening for dinner?" Phrasing it that way,
you've already subliminally answered Jill's questions
and she's more apt to give you a quick "yes."

The pleasure-pain principle is a guiding force in life.
Psychologists tell us everyone automatically gravitates
toward that which is pleasurable and pulls away from
that which is painful. For many people, thinking is
painful.

So big winners (when they wish to control, inspire,
be loved by, sell to people, or get them to go to dinner)
do the thinking for them. They translate everything into
the other person's terms by starting as many sentences
as they can with that powerful little three-letter word,
you. Thus, I call the technique "Comm-YOU-nication."

Comm-YOU-nicate When You Want a
Favor

Putting you first gets a much better response, especially
when you're asking a favor, because it pushes the
asker's pride button. Suppose you want to take a long
weekend. You decide to ask your boss if you can take
Friday off. Which request do you think he or she is
going to react to more positively? "Can J take Friday

@ AQ

off, Boss?" Or this one: "Boss, can you do without me
Friday?"

In the first case, Boss had to translate your "Can I
take Friday off?" into "Can I do without this employee
Friday?" That's an extra thought process. (And you
know how some bosses hate to think!)

However, in the second case, "Boss, can you do
without me Friday," you did Boss's thinking for her.
Your new wording made managing without you a
matter of pride for Boss. "Of course," she said to
herself. "I can manage without your help Friday."

Comm-YOU-nicate Your Compliments

Comm-YOU-nication also enriches your social
conversation. Gentlemen, say a lady likes your suit.
Which woman gives you warmer feelings? The woman
who says, "I like your suit." Or the one who says, "You
look great in that suit."

Big players who make business presentations use
Comm-YOU-nication to excellent advantage. Suppose
you're giving a talk and a participant asks a question.
He likes to hear you say, "That's a good question."
However, consider how much better he feels when you
tell him, "You've asked a good question."

Salespeople, don't just tell your prospects, "It's
important that... ." Convince them by informing them,
"You'll see the importance of. .. ."

When negotiating, instead of, "The result will be..."
let them know, "You'll see the result when you... ."

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Starting sentences with you even works when talking
to strangers on the street. Once, driving around San
Francisco hopelessly lost, I asked people walking along
the sidewalk how to get to the Golden Gate Bridge. I
stopped a couple trudging up a hill. "Excuse me," I
called out the window, "I can't find the Golden Gate
Bridge." The pair looked at each other and shrugged
with that "How stupid can these tourists get" look on
their faces. "That direction," the husband mumbled,
pointing straight ahead.

Still lost, I called out to the next couple I
encountered. "Excuse me, where's the Golden Gate
Bridge?" Without smiling, they pointed in the opposite
direction.

Then I decided to try Comm-YOU-nication. When I
came upon the next strolling couple, I called out the
window, "Excuse me, could you tell me where the
Golden Gate Bridge is?"

"Of course," they said, answering my question
literally. You see, by phrasing the question that way, it
was a subtle challenge. I was asking, in essence, "Are
you able to give me directions?" This hits them in the
pride button. They walked over to my car and gave me
explicit instructions.

"Hey," I thought. "This you stuff really works." To
test my hypothesis, I tried it a few more times. I kept
asking passersby my three forms of the question. Sure
enough, whenever I asked, "Could you tell me where . .
." people were more pleasant and helpful than when I
started the question with J or where.

@ AQ

TECHNIQUE #28
COMM-YOU-NICATION

Start every appropriate sentence with you. It
immediately grabs your listener's attention. It gets a
more positive response because it pushes the pride
button and saves them having to translate it into
"me" terms.

When you sprinkle you as liberally as salt and
pepper throughout your conversation, your listeners
find it an irresistible spice.

I'm sure when they recover the flight box from the
Fall of Man under a fig leaf in the Garden of Eden, it
will convince the world of the power of the word you.
Eve did not ask Adam to eat the apple. She did not
command him to eat the apple. She didn't even say,
"Adam, I want you to eat this apple." She phrased it (as
all big winners would), "You will love this apple." That's
why he bit.

Comm-YOU-nication Is a Sign of Sanity

Therapists calculate inmates of mental institutions say [
and me twelve times more often than residents of the
outside world. As patients' conditions improve, the
number of times they use the personal pronouns also
diminishes.

Continuing up the sanity scale, the fewer times you
use J, the more sane you seem to your listeners. If you

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
@ AQ

STO OF Op HO

Ds)

eavesdrop on big winners talking with each other, you'll
notice a lot more you than J in their conversation.

The next technique concerns a way big winners are 29 How to Make Them Feel
silently you-oriented. You "Don't Smile at Just
Anybody"

Have you ever seen those low-budget, mail-order
fashion catalogues that use the same model throughout?
Whether she is engulfed in a wedding gown or partially
clad in a bikini, her face sports the same plastic smile.
Looking at her, you get the feeling if you rapped on her
forehead, a tiny voice would come back saying
"Nobody's in here."

Whereas models in more sophisticated magazines
have mastered a myriad of different expressions: a
flirtatious "I've got a secret" smile on one page; a
quizzical "I think I'd like to get to know you but I'm not
sure" smile on the next; and a mysterious Mona Lisa
smile on the third. You feel there's a brain running the
operation somewhere inside that beautiful head.

I once stood in the receiving line of the ship I worked
on, along with the captain, his wife, and several other
officers. One passenger with a radiant smile started
shaking hands down our line. When he got to me, he
flashed a shimmering smile, revealing teeth as even and
white as keys on a new piano. I was transfixed. It was
as though a brilliant light had illuminated the dim
ballroom. I wished him a happy cruise and resolved to
find this charming gentleman later.
Then he was introduced to the next person. Out of
the corner of my eye, I saw his identical glistening grin.
A third person, the same grin. My interest began to
dwindle.

When he gave his fourth indistinguishable smile to
the next person, he started to resemble a Cheshire cat.
By the time he was introduced to the fifth person, his
consistent smile felt like a strobe light disturbing the
ambience of the ballroom. Strobe Man went on flashing
everybody the same smile down the line. I had no
further interest in talking with him.

Why did this man's stock shoot high in my ticker one
minute and plummet the next? Because his smile,
although charming, reflected no special reaction to me.
Obviously, he gave the same smile to everybody and, by
that, it lost all its specialness. If Strobe Man had given
each of us a slightly different smile, he would have
appeared sensitive and insightful. (Of course, if his
smile had been just a tad bigger for me than for the
others, I couldn't have waited for the formalities to be
over to seek him out in the crowded ballroom.)

Review Your Repertoire of Smiles

If your job required you to carry a gun, you would, of
course, learn all about the moving parts before firing it.
And before taking aim, you would carefully consider
whether it would murder, maim, or merely wound your
target. Since your smile is one of your biggest
communications weapons, learn all about the moving
parts and the effect on your target. Set aside five
minutes. Lock your bedroom or bathroom door so your
family doesn't think you've gone off the deep end. Now

@ AQ

stand in front of the mirror and flash a few smiles.
Discover the subtle differences in your repertoire.

Just as you would alternate saying "Hello," "How do
you do," and "I am pleased to meet you" when being
introduced to a group of people, vary your smile. Don't
use the same on each. Let each of your smiles reflect
the nuances of your sentiment about the recipient.

TECHNIQUE #29
THE EXCLUSIVE SMILE

If you flash everybody the same smile, like a
Confederate dollar, it loses value. When meeting
groups of people, grace each with a distinct smile.
Let your smiles grow out of the beauty big players
find in each new face.

If one person in a group is more important to you
than the others, reserve an especially big, flooding
smile just for him or her.

In Defense of the Quickie

There are times, I discovered, when the quick put-on
smile works. For example, when you want to engineer
the acquaintance of someone to whom you have not had
the opportunity to be introduced. (In the vernacular,
that's "pick them up.")

The smile's pickup power was proven for posterity
by solemn researchers at the University of Missouri.
They conducted a highly controlled study titled "Giving

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Men the Come-On: Effect of Eye Contact and Smiling
in a Bar Environment."45 (I kid you not.) To prove their
hypothesis, female researchers made eye contact with
unsuspecting male subjects enjoying a little libation in a
local drinking establishment. Sometimes, the female
researchers followed their glance with a smile. In other
cases, no smile.

The results? I quote the study: "The highest approach
behavior, 60 percent, was observed in the condition in
which there was smiling." That translates into layman's
English: "The guy came over 60 percent of the time
when the lady smiled." Without the smile, he "made the
approach only 20 percent of the time." So, yes, a smile
works for those who wish to pick somebody up.

However, in situations where the stakes are higher,
try The Flooding Smile from the first section and now
The Exclusive Smile.

@ AQ

30 How to Avoid Sounding
Like a Jerk

Do you remember that scene from the movie classic
Annie Hall where Diane Keaton is first meeting Woody
Allen? As she's chatting with him, we hear her private
thoughts. She's musing to herself, "Oh I hope he's not a
jerk like all the others."

One of the quickest ways to make a big winner think
you are, well, a jerk, is to use a cliché. If you're chatting
with a top communicator and even innocently remark
"Yes, I was tired as a dog," or "She was cute as a
button," you've unknowingly laid a linguistic bomb.

Big winners silently moan when they hear someone
mouth a trite overworn phrase. Oh sure, just like the rest
of us, big winners find themselves feeling fit as a fiddle,
happy as a lark, or high as a kite. Like the rest of
humanity, they consider some of their acquaintances
crazy as a loon, nutty as a fruitcake, or blind as a bat.
Because many of them work hard, many of them are as
busy as a bee and get rich as Croesus.

Yet would any of them describe themselves in those
words? Not in a coon's age! Why? Because when a big
winner hears your cliché, you might as well be saying,
"My powers of imagination are impoverished. I can't
think of anything original to say, so I must fall back on
these trite overworn phrases." Mouthing a common
cliché around uncommonly successful people brands
you as uncommonly common.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
TECHNIQUE #30

DON'T TOUCH A CLICHé WITH A TEN-
FOOT POLE

Be on guard. Don't use any clichés when chatting
with big winners. Don't even touch one with a ten-
foot pole. Never? Not even when hell freezes over?
Not unless you want to sound dumb as a doorknob.

Instead of coughing up a cliché, roll your own
clever phrases by using the next technique.

31 How to Use Motivational
Speakers' Techniques to
Enhance Your
Conversation

They say the pen is mightier than the sword. It is, but
the tongue is even mightier than the pen. Our tongues
can bring crowds to laughter, to tears, and often to their
feet in shouting appreciation. Orators have moved
nations to war or brought lost souls to God. And what is
their equipment? The same eyes, ears, hands, legs,
arms, and vocal chords you and I have.

Perhaps a professional athlete has a stronger body or
a professional singer is blessed with a more beautiful
singing voice than the one we were doled out. But the
professional speaker starts out with the same equipment
we all have. The difference is, these jaw-smiths use it
all. They use their hands, they use their bodies, and they
use specific gestures with heavy impact. They think
about the space they're talking in. They employ many
different tones of voice, they invoke various
expressions, they vary the speed with which they speak
... and they make effective use of silence.

You may not have to make a formal speech anytime
soon, but chances are sometime (probably very soon)
you're going to want people to see things your way.
Whether it's persuading your family to spend their next
vacation at Grandma's, or convincing the stockholders

Ds)
in your multimillion-dollar corporation that it's time to
do a takeover, do it like a pro. Get a book or two on
public speaking and learn some of the tricks of the
trade. Then put some of that drama into your everyday
conversation.

A Gem for Every Occasion

If stirring words help make your point, ponder the
impact of powerful phrases. They've helped politicians
get elected ("Read my lips: no new taxes.") and
defendants get acquitted ("If it doesn't fit, you must
acquit.").

If George H. W. Bush had said, "I promise not to
raise taxes," or Johnny Cochran, during O. J. Simpson's
criminal trial, had said, "If the glove doesn't fit, he must
be innocent," their bulky sentences would have slipped
in and out of the voter's or juror's consciousness. As
every politician and trial lawyer knows, neat phrases
make powerful weapons. (If you're not careful, your
enemies will later use them against you—tread my lips!)

One of my favorite speakers is a radio broadcaster
named Barry Farber who brightens up late-night radio
with sparkling similes. Barry would never use a cliché
like "nervous as a cat on a hot tin roof." He'd describe
being nervous about losing his job as "I felt like an
elephant dangling over a cliff with his tail tied to a
daisy." Instead of saying he looked at a pretty woman,
he'd say, "My eyeballs popped out and dangled by the
optic nerve."

When I first met him, I asked, "Mr. Farber, how do
you come up with these phrases?"

@ AQ

"My daddy's Mr. Farber. I'm Barry," he chided (his
way of saying, "Call me Barry"). He then candidly
admitted, although some of his phrases are original,
many are borrowed. (Elvis Presley used to say, "My
daddy's Mr. Presley. Call me Elvis.") Like all
professional speakers, Barry spends several hours a
week gleaning through books of quotations and humor.
All professional speakers do. They collect bon mots
they can use in a variety of situations—most especially
to scrape egg off their faces when something
unexpected happens.

Many speakers use author's and speaker's agent Lilly
Walters's face-saver lines from her book, What to Say
When You're Dying on the Platform.{£ If you tell a joke
and no one laughs, try "That joke was designed to get a
silent laugh—and it worked." If the microphone lets out
an agonizing howl, look at it and say, "I don't
understand. I brushed my teeth this morning." If
someone asks you a question you don't want to answer,
"Could you save that question until I'm finished—and
well on my way home?" All pros think of holes they
might fall into and then memorize great escape lines.
You can do the same.

Look through books of similes to enrich your day-to-
day conversations. Instead of "happy as a lark" try
"happy as a lottery winner" or "happy as a baby with its
first ice cream cone." Instead of "bald as an eagle," try
"bald as a new marine" or "bald as a bullfrog's belly."
Instead of "quiet as a mouse," try "quiet as an eel
swimming in oil" or "quiet as a fly lighting on a feather
duster."

yy)

a 7.
Find phrases that have visual impact. Instead of a
cliché like "sure as death and taxes," try "as certain as
beach traffic in July" or "as sure as your shadow will
follow you." Your listeners can't see death or taxes. But
they sure can see beach traffic in July or their shadow
following them down the street.

Try to make your similes relate to the situation. If
you're riding in a taxi with someone, "as sure as that
taxi meter will rise" has immediate impact. If you're
talking with a man walking his dog, "as sure as your
dog is thinking about that tree" adds a touch of humor.

Make 'Em Laugh, Make 'Em Laugh,
Make 'Em Laugh

Humor enriches any conversation. But not jokes starting
with, "Hey didja hear the one about . . .?" Plan your
humor and make it relevant. For example, if you're
going to a meeting on the budget, look up money in a
quotation book. In an uptight business situation, a little
levity shows you're at ease.

Once, during an oppressive financial meeting, I heard
a top executive say, "Don't worry, this company has
enough money to stay in business for years—unless we
pay our creditors." He broke the tension and won the
appreciation of all. Later I saw a similar quote in a
humor book attributed to Jackie Mason, the comedian.
So what? The exec still came across as a cool
communicator with his clever comment.

Big players who want to be quoted in the media lie
awake at night gnawing the pillow trying to come up
with phrases the press will pick up. A Michigan

@ AQ

veterinarian named Timothy, a heavy hitter in his own
field but completely unknown outside it, made national
headlines when he planned to attach a pair of feet to a
rooster who lost his to frostbite. Why? Because he
called it a "drumstick transplant."

I don't know if a French woman, Jeanne Calment,
then officially the world's oldest person, was looking for
publicity on her 122nd birthday. But she made
international headlines when she told the media, "I've
only ever had one wrinkle, and I'm sitting on it."

Mark Victor Hansen, a big player in his own field but
once relatively unknown outside of it, was propelled
into national prominence when he came up with a
catchy name for his book coauthored with Jack
Canfield, Chicken Soup for the Soul. He told me his
original title was 101 Pretty Stories. How far would that
have gone? Soon the world was lapping up, among
others, his Chicken Soup for the Woman's Soul, Chicken
Soup for the Teenage Soul, Chicken Soup for the
Mother's Soul, Chicken Soup for the Christian Soul,
plus second, third, and fourth servings of chicken soup
in hardcover, paperback, audiocassette, videocassette,
and calendars.

A Word of Warning

No matter how good your material is, it bombs if it
doesn't fit the situation. I learned this the hard way
during my cruise ship days. On a cruise to England I
decided to give my passengers a reading of the English
love poems of Elizabeth Barrett and Robert Browning.
You know, "How do I love thee? Let me count the
ways." It was a BIG hit. The passengers loved it and

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
raved for days. I couldn't walk out on deck without
some passenger turning to me and affectionately
echoing, "How do I love thee?"

TECHNIQUE #31
USE JAWSMITH'S JIVE

Whether you're standing behind a podium facing
thousands or behind the barbecue grill facing your
family, you'll move, amuse, and motivate with the
same skills.

Read speakers' books to cull quotations, pull
pearls of wisdom, and get gems to tickle their funny
bones. Find a few bon mots to let casually slide off
your tongue on chosen occasions. If you want to be
notable, dream up a crazy quotable.

Make 'em rhyme, make 'em clever, or make 'em
funny. Above all, make 'em relevant.

Naturally I got a pretty swollen head over this
performance and fancied myself an eminent poetry
reader. I decided to reward the passengers on the next
cruise (which was a cruise to the Caribbean and didn't
go anywhere in the neighborhood of England) with my
spectacular reading of the English love poems. WHAT
A BOMB! Passengers avoided me on the deck for the
rest of the cruise. "How did you bore me? Let me count
the ways."

@ AQ

32 How to Banter Like the
Big Shots Do _ (Big
Winners Tell It Like It Is)

If you stepped into an elevator full of people speaking
Hungarian, you might not recognize they were
Hungarian unless you spoke their language. However,
the minute you opened your mouth, they'd recognize
you're not Hungarian.

It's the same with the big cats. If you overhear
several of them speaking, you might not recognize
they're big cats. However, the minute you opened your
mouth they'd recognize you're not a big cat, unless you
spoke their lingo.

What are some differences between a big cat's growl
and a little cat's insignificant hiss? One of the most
blatant is euphemisms. Big cats aren't afraid of real
words. They call a spade a spade. Words like toilet
paper don't scare them. Little cats hide behind
bathroom tissue. If somebody is rich, big cats call it
"rich." Little cats, oh so embarrassed at the concept of
talking about money in polite company, substitute the
word wealthy. When little cats use a substitute word or
euphemism, they might as well be saying, "Whoops,
you are better than I am. I'm in polite company now and
so I'll use the nicey-nice word."

Big cats are anatomically correct—no cutesy words
for body parts. They'll say "breasts" when they mean

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
breasts. When they say "knockers," they mean
decorative structures that hang on the front door. And
"family jewels" are in the safe on the wall.

If a big cat is ever in doubt about a word, he or she
simply resorts to French. If they feel the word buttocks
is debatable, derriere will do quite nicely, thank you.

TECHNIQUE #32
CALLA SPADE A SPADE

Don't hide behind euphemisms. Call a spade a spade.
That doesn't mean big cats use tasteless four-letter
words when perfectly decent five- and six-letter
ones exist. They've simply learned the King's
English, and they speak it.

Here's another way to tell the big players from the
little ones just by listening to a few minutes of their
conversation.

@ AQ

33 How to Avoid the World's
Worst Conversational
Habit

Once I was at a small dinner party given by the
president of an advertising agency, Louis, and his wife,
Lillian. The evening started with cocktails, followed by
a gourmet meal accompanied by a selection of excellent
wines. The conversation had been convivial, the cuisine
delicious, and the wine very fine. And very plentiful. At
the end of the evening, Louis raised his glass to make a
toast. A few wine droplets sloshed out of his glass onto
the tablecloth.

A pretty young woman who was the date of a new art
director named Bob giggled and said, "I can tell you're
feeling no pain."

Shock waves went around the table. Everyone froze.
The host was indeed a bit inebriated. However, alluding
to Louis being a little looped, even in jest, was as
though the woman had suddenly smashed the crystal
chandelier above the table with her dinner plate.

One guest quickly covered the girl's horrifying gaffe
by lifting her glass and saying "None of us is. No one in
the company of Louis and Lillian could ever feel any
pain. Here's to a truly wonderful evening."

Louis then continued with his toast to the wonderful
company, and no one was feeling pain any longer.
Except Bob. He knew his date's innocent teasing was a

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
black mark, if not in his personnel file, on his personal
file.

The next sure sign of a little cathood is teasing. Little
cats go around patting their friends' paunches and
saying, "Enjoying that cheesecake, huh?" Or looking at
their balding heads and saying, "Hey, hair today, gone
tomorrow, huh?" They think it's hilarious to make a
quip at someone else's expense and say "You don't have
an inferiority complex. You are inferior! Hardy har har."

TECHNIQUE #33
TRASH THE TEASING

A dead giveaway of a little cat is his or her
proclivity to tease. An innocent joke at someone
else's expense may get you a cheap laugh.
Nevertheless, the big cats will have the last one.
Because you'll bang your head against the glass
ceiling they construct to keep little cats from
stepping on their paws.

Never, ever, make a joke at anyone else's expense.
You'll wind up paying for it, dearly.

@ AQ

34 How to Give Them the
Bad News (and Have
Them Like You All the
More)

In ancient Egypt, the pharaoh treated the humblest
message runner like a prince when he arrived at the
palace, if he brought good news. However, if the
exhausted runner had the misfortune to bring the
pharaoh unhappy news, his head was chopped off.

Shades of that spirit pervade today's conversations.
Once a friend and I packed up some peanut butter and
jelly sandwiches for an outing. As we waltzed happily
out the door, picnic basket in hand, a smiling neighbor,
rocking away on his porch, looked up at the sky and
said, "Oh boy, bad day for a picnic. The newscast says
it's going to rain." I wanted to rub his face in my peanut
butter and jelly sandwich. Not for his gloomy weather
report, for his smile.

Several months ago I was racing to catch a bus. As I
breathlessly shoved my handful of cash across the
Greyhound counter, the grinning sales agent gushed,
"Oh that bus left five minutes ago." Dreams of
decapitation!

It's not the news that makes someone angry. It's the
unsympathetic attitude with which it's delivered.
Everyone must give bad news from time to time, and
winning professionals do it with the proper attitude. A

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
doctor advising a patient she needs an operation does it
with compassion. A boss informing an employee he
didn't get the job takes on a sympathetic demeanor.
Grief counselors at airports after fatal crashes share the
grief-stricken sentiment of relatives. Big winners know,
when delivering any bad news, they should share the
sentiment of the receiver.

Unfortunately, many people are not aware of this
sensitivity. When you're weary from a long flight, has a
hotel clerk cheerfully chirped that your room isn't ready
yet? When you had your heart set on the roast beef, has
your waiter merrily warbled that he just served the last
piece? When you needed cash for the weekend, has
your bank teller gleefully told you your account is
overdrawn? It makes you as traveler, diner, or depositor
want to put your fist right through their insensitive
grins.

TECHNIQUE #34
IT'S THE RECEIVER'S BALL

A football player wouldn't last two beats of the time
clock if he made blind passes. A pro throws the ball
with the receiver always in mind.

Before throwing out any news, keep your receiver
in mind. Then deliver it with a smile, a sigh, or a
sob. Not according to how you feel about the news,
but how the receiver will take it.

Had my neighbor told me of the impending rainstorm
with sympathy, I would have appreciated his warning.

@ AQ

Had the Greyhound salesclerk sympathetically informed
me that my bus had already left, I probably would have
said, "Oh, that's all right. I'll catch the next one." Big
winners, when they bear bad news, deliver bombs with
the emotion the bombarded person is sure to have.

Big winners know how to give bad news to people.
They also know how not to give any news to anyone,
even when people are pressuring them. Let's explore
that next.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
35 How to Respond When
You Don't Want to
Answer (and Wish They'd
Shut the Heck Up)

One of my clients Barbara, a ministar in the furniture
business, recently separated from her husband and
business partner, Frank, a megastar in the furniture
business. They suffered a long and messy divorce that
resulted in them keeping the business jointly but not
having to deal with each other.

Soon after the divorce, I was at an industry
convention with Barbara. Since she and Frank were
both beloved in the industry, people were curious about
what had happened and how it affected their company.
But, of course, no one dared ask outright. And Barbara
was offering no explanations.

I was seated next to Barbara at the gala farewell
dinner. Apparently one of her colleagues at the table
couldn't contain her curiosity any longer. During
dessert, she leaned over to Barbara and in a hushed
voice asked, "Barbara, what happened with you and
Frank?"

Barbara, unruffled by the rude question, simply took
a spoonful of her cherries jubilee and said, "We've
separated, but the company is unaffected."

Ds)
Not satisfied with that answer, the woman pumped
harder. "Are you still working together?"

Barbara took another bite of her dessert and repeated
in precisely the same tone of voice, "We've separated,
but the company is unaffected."

The frustrated interrogator was not going to give up
easily. "Are you both still working in the company?"

Barbara, appearing not the least disturbed by the
woman's incontinent insistence, scooped the last cherry
out of her dish, smiled, looked directly at her, and said
in the identical tone of voice, "We've separated, but the
company is unaffected."

That shut her up. Barbara had shown her big winner's
badge by using "The Broken Record" technique, the
most effective way to curtail an unwelcome cross-
examination.

TECHNIQUE #35
THE BROKEN RECORD

Whenever someone persists in questioning you on
an unwelcome subject, simply repeat your original
response. Use precisely the same words in precisely
the same tone of voice. Hearing it again usually
quiets them down. If your rude interrogator hangs on
like a leech, your next repetition never fails to flick
them off.

36 How to Talk to a
Celebrity

Suppose you've just settled in for dinner at a nice
restaurant. You look over at the next table, and who do
you see? Is it really he? Could it possibly be? It's gotta
be a look-alike. No, it isn't! It really is... Woody Allen.
(Substitute any celebrity here: your favorite movie star,
politician, broadcaster, boss who owns the company
that owns the company you work for.) And there the
celestial body is in the flesh, sitting not ten feet from
you. What should you do?

Nothing! Big shots don't slobber over stars. Let the
luminary enjoy a brief moment of anonymity. If he or
she should cast a glance in your direction, give a smile
and a nod. Then waft your gaze back to your dining
companion. You will be a lot cooler in the eyes of your
dinner partner if you take it all in your stride.

Now, if you just can't resist this once-in-a-lifetime
opportunity to press the flesh of the megastar and tell
him or her of your admiration, here's how to do it with
grace. Wait until you or the luminary are leaving the
restaurant. After the check has been paid and you will
obviously not be taking much of his or her time, you
may make your approach. Say something like, "Mr.
Allen, I just want to tell you how much pleasure your
wonderful films have given me over the years. Thank
you so much."
Did you pick up the subtlety here? You are not
complimenting his work. "After all," he might well ask
himself, "who are you to judge whether I am a great
filmmaker or not?" You can only speak from your own
perspective. You do this by telling him how much
pleasure his work has given you.

If it's your boss's boss's boss's boss whom the fates
have sent to bask in your adulation, do the same. Do not
say "Bill" or "Mr. Gates, you really run a great
company."

"Lowly geek," he thinks, "Who are you to judge?"
Instead, tell him what an honor it is to work for him.
Obviously this is not the moment to detail the
intricacies of your improvements on image-editing
software for digitizing photographs.

Then let your body language express that if Woody
or Bill or the other megastar wants to leave it at that,
you are happy with the exchange. If, however, the
megastar is captivated by you (or has had so much
liquid merriment that he or she has decided to mingle
with the masses tonight), then all bets are off. You're on
your own. Enjoy! Until you pick up the first body-
language sign that they would like to end it. Think of
yourself as a ballroom dance student waltzing with your
teacher. He leads, you follow. And he tells you when the
waltz is over.

Incidentally, if the megastar is with a companion and
your conversation goes on for more than a few
moments, direct some comments at the companion. If
the satellite is in such stellar company, he or she is
probably also an accomplished person.

@ AQ

Felicia, a friend of mine, is a talented trial lawyer
who is married to a local TV-show host. Because Tom is
on television, people recognize him wherever they go,
and Felicia gets ignored. Felicia tells me how frustrating
it is, even for Tom. Whenever they go to a party, people
gush all over Tom, and Felicia's fascinating work hardly
ever gets mentioned. She and Tom used to love going
out to dinner, but now they hide out at home in the
evenings. Why? Because they can't stand the
interruptions of overly effervescent fans.

"I Love What You Used to Be [You Has-
Been]"

Another sensitivity: the film star is probably obsessed
with his last film, the politician with her last election, a
corporate mogul with his last takeover, an author with
her last novel—and so forth. So when discussing the
star's, the politician's, the mogul's, the author's, or any
VIP's work, try to keep your comments to current or
recent work. Telling Woody Allen how much you loved
his 1980 film Stardust Memories would not endear you
to him. "What about all my wonderful films since?"
thinks he. Stick to the present or very recent past if
possible.

TECHNIQUE #36
BIG SHOTS DON'T SLOBBER

People who are VIPs in their own right don't slobber
over celebrities. When you are chatting with one,

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
don't compliment her work, simply say how much
pleasure or insight it's given you. If you do single
out any one of the star's accomplishments, make
sure it's a recent one, not a memory that's getting
yellow in her scrapbook.

If the queen bee has a drone sitting with her, find
a way to involve him in the conversation.

A final celebrity codicil: Suppose you are fortunate
enough to have one at your party. To shine some star
light on your party, don't ask the TV host to "say a few
words." Don't ask the singer to sing a song. What looks
effortless to the rest of us because they seem so
comfortable performing is work for them. You wouldn't
ask an accountant guest to look over your books. Or a
dentist to check out your third left molar. Let the
dignitary drink. Let the luminary laugh. Celebrities are
people, too, and they like their time off.

@ AQ

37 How to Make Them Want
to Thank You

To wrap up our section on sounding like the big boys
and big girls, here is a simple and gracious little
maneuver. It not only signals people you're a top
communicator, but it encourages them to keep doing
nice things for you. Or complimenting you. Or doing
business with you. Or loving you. It is very short. It is
very sweet. It is very simple. You can use it with
everyone in your life. When it becomes instinctive,
you'll find yourself using it every day.

Very simply, never let the phrase thank you stand
naked and alone. Always make it thank you for
something. People use the bare exposed "thank you" so
often that people don't even hear it anymore. When we
buy the morning newspaper, we flash a naked "thank
you" at the vendor when he gives us our nickel's
change. Is that the same "thank you" you want to give a
valued customer who makes a big purchase in your
store? Or a loved one who cooks you a delicious
dinner?

Whenever the occasion warrants more than an
unconscious acknowledgment, dress up your "thank
you" with the reason:

Thank you for coming.
Thank you for being so understanding.

Thank you for waiting.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Thank you for being such a good customer.
Thank you for being so loving.

Often, when I disembark an airplane, the captain and
first officer are standing by the cockpit door to bid the
passengers farewell. I say, "Thanks for getting us here."
Admittedly, that's carrying "Never the Naked Thank
You" technique to extremes, but it has a surprising
effect. They fall all over themselves with "Oh, thanks
for flying with us!"

TECHNIQUE #37
NEVER THE NAKED THANK YOU

Never let the phrase "thank you" stand alone. From
A to Z, always follow it with for: from "Thank you
for asking" to "Thank you for zipping me up."

Thank you for reading this section of How to Talk to
Anyone! Now let us move on to another conversation
challenge, how to talk knowledgeably with everyone—
from groups of accountants to Zen Buddhists—no
matter how little you might have in common.

@ AQ

PART FOUR

HOW TO BE AN INSIDER IN
ANY CROWD

What Are They All Talking About?

Has it ever happened to you? Everyone at the party is
speaking gobbledygook. They're all discussing faulty
audits, code constraints, or the library market—and you
have no idea what they're talking about. It's because
everybody at the party is an accountant, an architect, or
a publisher—and you're not.

So you stand there with a pasty smile on your face,
not opening your mouth. If you do, you fear the wrong
thing will come out. Paranoia sets in. Everybody will
snicker at you. You're an outsider. So you suffer in
silence.

In high school I suffered a massive case of Silent
Outsider Syndrome, especially around males. All they
wanted to talk about was cars. I knew nothing about
cars. The only time I'd ever set foot in a "body shop"
was to get a suntan.

Well, one fateful day, Mama came home with a gift
for me that transformed my teenage existence from shy
to sociable. It was a book on all the current model cars
and their differences over and under the hood. One
reading, and I became fluent in Fords, Chevys, and
Buicks. I no longer hyperventilated when boys said
words like carburetor, alternator, camshaft, or exhaust
manifold. I didn't need to learn a lot, just enough to ask

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
@ AQ
ee

yy)

the right questions to get the guys talking. When I'd insider.
learned to speak "car" with the boys, it worked wonders
for my social life.

Cut to today. We grown-up boys and girls also have
our favorite topics that usually involve our work or our
hobbies. When we're with people in our own field or
who share our interests, we open up like small-town
gossips. (Even engineers who have a constant case of
cat-got-their-tongue start gabbing about greasy turbines
and various projects when they're together.) To
outsiders, our conversation sounds like gobbledygook.
But we know precisely what it's about. It's our own
jobbeldygook or hobbydygook.

You fear you'll find yourself in a party of squash
players when you're the type of person who'd rather be
in court than on court? Don't panic hearing words like
lobbing and hittingrails roll off the squash players'
tongues. So what if the only experience you've ever had
with squash was the mashed acorn variety on your plate
next to the turkey last Thanksgiving. All you need is the
few techniques that follow.

Just as anglers throw out a dragonfly to get the fish to
bite, all you have to do is throw out the right questions
to get people to open up. Dale Carnegie's adage, "show
sincere interest and people will talk," only goes so far.
As they say in poker, "it takes jacks or better to open."
And in conversation, it takes cursory knowledge or
better about their field to get them to really open up.
You must have knowledgeable curiosity, the kind that
makes you sound like you're worth talking to.

In this section, we explore techniques that are "Open
Sesames" to get people gabbing with you like an
38 How to Be a Modern-Day
Renaissance Man or
Woman

Whenever friends visit my hometown, New York City, I
warn them "Never ask anyone riding in the subway for
directions."

"Because I'll get mugged?" they fearfully ask.

"No, just because you'll never get where you're
going!" Most Big Apple subway riders know only two
things about the subway: where they get on and where
they get off. They know nothing about the rest of the
system. Most people are like NYC strap-hangers when
it comes to their hobbies and interests. They know their
own pastimes, but all the others are like unvisited
stations.

My unmarried (and wishing she weren't) friend Rita
has a bad case of bowler's thumb. Every Wednesday
night she's bowling up a storm with her friends. She is
forever discussing her scores, her averages, and her
high game. Another single and searching friend Walter
is into white-water rafting. He talks endlessly with his
paddling friends about which rivers he's run, which
outfitters he's gone with, and which class rapids he
prefers. Thinking my two single friends might hit it off,
I introduced Walter the paddler to Rita the bowler and
mentioned their respective passions.

"Oh you're a bowler!" said Walter.

Ds)
"Yes," Rita smiled demurely, awaiting more
questions about her big bowling turn-on. Walter was
silent.

Masking her disappointment, Rita said, "Uh, Leil
tells me you're into water rafting." Walter smiled
proudly, awaiting further friendly interrogation on
paddling. "Uh, that must be exciting. Isn't it
dangerous?" was the best Rita could do.

"No, it's not dangerous," Walter patronizingly
responded to her typical outsider's question. Then the
conversation died.

During the deafening silence, I remember thinking, if
Rita had run just one river, if Walter had bowled just
one game, their lives might be different now.
Conversation could have flowed, and who knows what
else might have flowered.

Go Fly a Kite!

The "Scramble Therapy" technique is salvation from
such disappointing encounters. It will transform you
into a modern-day Renaissance man or woman who
comfortably can discuss a variety of interests.

Scramble Therapy is, quite simply, scrambling up
your life and participating in an activity you'd never
think of indulging in. Just one out of every four
weekends, do something totally out of your pattern. Do
you usually play tennis on weekends? This weekend, go
hiking. Do you usually go hiking? This weekend, take a
tennis lesson. Do you bowl? Leave that to your buddies
this time. Instead, go white-water rafting. Oh, you were

@ AQ

planning on running some rapids like you do every
warm weekend? Forget it, go bowling.

Go to a stamp exhibition. Go to a chess lecture. Go
ballooning. Go bird-watching. Go to a pool hall. Go
kayaking. Go fly a kite! Why? Because it will give you
conversational fodder for the rest of your life. From that
weekend on, you'll sound like an insider with all the
hikers, stamp collectors, ballooners, birders, billiards
players, kayakers, and kitists you ever meet. Just by
doing their activity once.

If you take a piece of blue litmus paper and dip it in a
huge vat of acid, the tip turns pink. If you take another
blue litmus paper and dip it into just one minuscule
drop of acid on a glass slide, the tip turns just as pink.
Compare this to participating in an activity just one
time. A sampling gives you 80 percent of the
conversational value. You learn the insider's questions
to ask. You start using the right terms. You'll never be at
a loss again when the subject of extracurricular interests
comes up—which it always does.

Do You Speak Scuba?

I'm not a certified scuba diver. However, six years ago
in Bermuda I saw a sign: "Resort Dives, $25, no Scuba
experience necessary." In just three hours, I received the
best crash course in talking with scuba divers the world
offers.

First I was given a quick lesson in the pool. Then,
struggling to stay erect under the weight of my oxygen
tank, regulator, buoyancy compensator, and weight belt,
I went clumping out to the dive boat. Sitting there on

yy)

a 7.
the rocking dinghy, fondling my mask and fins like
worry beads, I overheard the certified divers asking
each other insider questions:

"Where were you certified?"

"Where have you dived?"

"Do you prefer wrecks or reefs?"

"Ever done any night diving?"

"Are you into underwater photography?"
"Do you dive on a computer?"

"What's your longest bottom time?"

"Did you ever get the bends?"

Why the italicized words? Those are scuba lingo. I
now speak scuba. To this day, whenever I meet divers, I
have the right questions to ask and subjects to discuss.
And the right ones to avoid. (Like how much I like
seafood. That's like telling a cat lover how much you
love tender barbecued kitten.) I can now ask my new
friends which of the scuba hot spots they've been to—
Cozumel, Cayman, Cancun. Then, if I want to really
show off, I ask if they've been to Truk Lagoon in the Far
Pacific, the Great Barrier Reef in Australia, or the Red
Sea.

All the insider terms now roll comfortably off my
tongue. Before my Scramble Therapy experience I'd be
calling their beloved wrecks and reefs "sunken ships"
and "coral." Understandable words, but not scuba
words. Not insider words. Upon meeting a scuba diver,
I probably would have asked, "Oh scuba diving. That

@ AQ

must be interesting. Uh, aren't you afraid of sharks?"
Not a good way to get off on the right fin with a diver.

TECHNIQUE #38
SCRAMBLE THERAPY

Once a month, scramble your life. Do something
you'd never dream of doing. Participate in a sport,
go to an exhibition, hear a lecture on something
totally out of your experience. You get 80 percent of
the right lingo and insider questions from just one
exposure.

Think about it! Suppose at a dinner party, the table
conversation turns to scuba diving. If you, too, had done
your one-time-only dive, you'd ask your diving dinner
companion if he likes night diving or whether he prefers
diving on wrecks or reefs. (He'll never believe it when
you tell him the deepest water you've ever submerged
yourself in is your own bathtub.)

Then you turn to the bungee jumper seated on your
left and ask him, "Do you prefer chest-waist jumps or
ankle jumps?" If the conversation then changes to
tennis, or martial arts, or chess, or coin collecting, or
even bird-watching, you can keep up and keep the
conversation going. What a guy! What a gal!

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
39 How to Sound Like You
Know All About Their
Job or Hobby

Even more insidious than hobby-talk is job-speak, or
"Jobbledygook." I still harbor social nightmares of the
evening I attended a party thrown by a couple who
worked in computer database management. As I walked
in the door, I overheard one chap saying to another,
"When the domain relational calculus is restricted to
safe expressions, it's equivalent to the turple relational. .

"

That's all I stayed around for. I knew I wasn't going
to understand one bit or byte of conversation the rest of
the evening. It made me long for the days when a
mouse meant the furry little fellow who loves cheese,
windows were the kind you bought drapes for, and the
web was something spiders trapped flies in. I knew I
was going to need some technical support if I was going
to be compatible with this crowd.

I decided then and there to learn some of the opening
questions database management types ask each other.
Which I did. Now I can't wait for a second chance at
that crowd because I'm armed with questions like "What
raid level are you using?" and "What data warehousing
product do you use?"

All you need are a few insider opening questions to
get you started with any group. You ask questions, listen

Ds)
to the responses, and indulge in elementary on-target
conversation with them for a moment or two about their
field. (Then change the subject ASAP! You don't want
to fake you are more knowledgeable about their field
than you really are.)

It's All in the Opening Question

A tennis player can tell immediately from just
appraising your opening serve how good a player you
are. Is it going to be great playing with you or a real
bore? It's the same in communicating. Just from your
verbal opening serve, someone knows if it's going to be
interesting talking with you about their life or interests
—or dull, dull, dull.

For example, suppose I'm introduced to someone and
the first words out of her mouth are, "Oh, you're a
writer. When are you going to write the great American
novel?" Yikes, I know I'm talking with someone who is
unfamiliar with my world. We'll chat, but I prefer to
change the subject. And soon, my conversation partner.

If, however, my new acquaintance says, "Oh you're a
writer. Do you write fiction or nonfiction?" Bingo! Now
I know I'm with a person who knows about my world.
Why? Because that is the first question all writers ask
each other. I enjoy talking to this inquisitor because I
presume she has more insights into the writing world.
Even if we quickly get off the subject of writing, she
has come across as a well-informed individual.

Every job, every sport, every interest has insider
opening questions that everybody in the same field asks
—and its dumb outsider questions that they never ask

@ AQ

each other. When an astronaut meets another astronaut,
he asks, "What missions have you been on?" (Never
"How do you go to the bathroom up there?") A dentist
asks another dentist, "Are you in general practice or do
you have a specialty?" (Never "Heard any good pain
jokes lately?")

The good news is beginning Jobbledygook is an easy
language. You don't need to master buzzwords, only a
few opening questions to make you sound like an
insider. Then—here's the fun part—when you tell them
you're not connected to their field, they're all the more
impressed. "What a knowledgeable person!" they say to
themselves.

"Help! Everybody There Will Be an
Artist"

It's not hard to harvest good Jobbledygook. Let's say
you've been invited to a gallery opening where you'll be
meeting many artists. If you don't speak artist, go
through your Rolodex to see if you have an artist friend
or two.

Aha, you found one. Well, sort of. Your friend Sally
attended art school. You call her up and ask, "Sally, I
know this sounds silly but I've been invited to an event
where I'm bound to be talking with a lot of artists.
Could you give me a few good questions to ask?" Sally
might find your query a tad unusual, but your diligence
should impress her.

Maybe she'll say, "Well, ask artists what medium
they work in."

"Medium?" you ask.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
"Sure," she'll tell you. "That's the insider's way to ask
if they work with acrylics, oil, charcoal, pen, and so
forth."

"Oh."
"Don't ask artists to describe their work," she warns.

"They feel theirs is a visual medium that can't be
described."

"Oh."

"And don't ask them if their work is in a gallery."

"Oh?"

"That could be a sore point. Instead ask 'Is there
anyplace I might see your work?' They'll love that
because, even if they're not represented by a gallery,

they can invite you to their studio to possibly buy their
work."

TECHNIQUE #39
LEARN A LITTLE JOBBLEDYGOOK

Big winners speak Jobbledygook as a _ second
language. What is Jobbledygook? It's the language
of other professions.

Why speak it? It makes you sound like an insider.

How do you learn it? You'll find no Jobbledygook
cassettes in the language section of your bookstore,
but the lingo is easy to pick up. Simply ask a friend
who speaks the lingo of the crowd you'll be with to

@ AQ

teach you a few opening questions. The words are
few and the rewards are manifold.

That's all you need to get started—two good opening
art questions and a warning against the most-asked
dumb outsider question.

Let's say you've given a great opening serve with the
right question on their job. You've slammed a swift ball
dead center into their conversational court. Happily,
thinking they're with an ace player, they answer your
question. Then they put a little spin on the ball and send
it lobbing right back into your court and it's time for a
follow-up question. Whoops, what to do now?

If you don't want to come out of the bluffer's closet
just yet, you must master the next technique, "Baring
Their Hot Button."

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
40 How to Bare Their Hot
Button (Elementary Doc-
Talk)

My friend John, a physician, recently married a
charming Japanese woman, Yamika. John told me the
first time they were invited to a party to meet many of
John's colleagues, Yamika was panic-stricken. She
wanted to make a good impression, yet she was tense
about talking to American doctors. John was the only
one she'd ever met, and during their romance they didn't
spend a whole lot of time discussing medicine.

John told her, "Don't worry about it, Yami. They all
ask each other the same old questions. When you meet
them, just ask, 'What's your specialty’ and 'Are you
affiliated with a hospital?’

"Then, to get into deeper conversation," he
continued, "throw out questions like 'How's your
relationship with your hospital?' or 'How's the current
medical environment affecting you?’ These are hot
issues with doctors because everything's changing in
health care."

John said Yamika delivered the lines verbatim. She
circulated the party asking the various doctors'
specialties and inquiring about their affiliations and
relationships with their hospitals. As a result, she was
the hit of the party. Many of John's colleagues later

Ds)
congratulated him on having found such a charming and
insightful woman.

Getting the Real Grabber

It's not just doctors. Every profession has concerns that
are all the buzz within the industry. The rest of the
world, however, knows little about these fixations. For
example, independent booksellers constantly complain
that big superstore chains are taking over the industry.
Accountants lie awake nights worrying about liability
insurance for faulty audits. And dentists grind their teeth
over OSHA and EPA regulations. Oh, us writers, too.
We're always bellyaching about magazines not paying
us for electronic rights to our precious words.

Suppose some hapless soul were unlucky enough to
find himself in a party of writers. Making conversation
with these folks (who seldom know what they think
until they see what they say) is no easy task for one who
is accustomed to communicating in the spoken word.
However, if before the party the nonwriter had called
just one writer acquaintance and asked about the
burning issues, he'd have had hot conversation with the
wordsmiths all evening. I call the technique "Baring
Their Hot Button."

TECHNIQUE #40
BARING THEIR HOT BUTTON

Before jumping blindly into a bevy of bookbinders
or a drove of dentists, find out what the hot issues

@ AQ

are in their fields. Every industry has burning
concerns the outside world knows little about. Ask
your informant to bare the industry buzz. Then, to
heat the conversation up, push those buttons.

Back to the art show you're about to attend. You can't
let Sally hang up yet. She's given you the two best
opening questions for artists. But don't let her go until
you get the real conversational grabber. Ask her the
hottest issues going on in the art world. She might think
a minute and then say, "Well, there's always art prices."

"Art prices?" you ask.

"Yes," she explains. "For example, in the 1980s the
art world was very market-driven. Prices went sky-high
because some investors and status seekers paid
exorbitant amounts. We feel that kind of took art away
from the masses."

Wow, now you're really armed with some good
insider art talk!

See You at the Big One!

While you're at it, don't forget to grill your informant
for special insider greetings to use when you're with
their gang. For example, actresses cringe if they hear
"good luck" before a show, but they smile at well-
wishers who say "Break a leg!"

"Break a leg," however, is not appropriate for runners
before a marathon. That's the last thought they want to
have! The only thing they want to break is their
personal record. Try "Have a personal best!"

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Firefighters who work on shift seldom see each other
except, of course, at the biggest blazes. Thus the
firefighters' greeting "See ya at the big one!"

Once, driving in a sleepy town you'd have to work at
getting lost in, I succeeded. I was hopelessly turned
around. Happily, I spotted the firehouse and a couple of
bored firefighters lounging out front.

"Excuse me, can you tell me the way back to Route
50?" I called out the window. I could tell from their
attitude they thought I was an idiot. Nevertheless, they
lethargically pointed me in the right direction. As I
drove off, I called out, "Thanks guys, see ya at the big
one!" In the rearview mirror I saw huge smiles break
out on their faces as they stood up in unison and waved
good-bye. The disoriented dizzy blond driving off had
won their respect with their insider salute.

@ AQ

41 How to Secretly Learn
About Their Lives

Let's say your paper carrier has just hurled the
newspaper from his bike to your front door. You pour a
cup of coffee and get comfortable to catch up on what's
happening in the world. Your world, that is. Do you flip
first to the international news? The fashion section? The
sports page? The entertainment section? Maybe the
comics?

Whichever section you usually flip to first, tomorrow
DON'T. Turn to any other section, preferably one you
hardly ever read. Why? Because it will familiarize you
with other worlds so that you can soon discuss anything
with anybody, no matter how little you have in
common.

How about the real estate section? Yawn. Maybe you
don't find real estate especially engrossing. However,
sooner or later you're going to find yourself with a
group of people who are discussing properties, deals,
and today's market. Scanning the real estate section just
once every few weeks will keep you au courant with
their conversation.

The advertising column? Maybe you think the world
would be a far, far better place without Madison
Avenue. But your bottom line won't be better off if you
can't hold your own discussing matters with the
marketing maven you've just contracted to advertise
your company's widgets. Just a few peeks at the

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
advertising news section and you'll soon be chatting
about campaigns and creative people, and doing print or
TV. Instead of saying words, you'll be saying copy.
Instead of the agency, you'll be bandying about real
insider terms like the shop.

Using outsider words is one of the biggest giveaways
that you are not in the know. On the ship, if a passenger
asked any of my staff, "How long have you been
working on the boat?" they'd squelch a groan. Cruise
staffers proudly worked on a ship, and the word boat
revealed the passenger as a real landlubber.

The right word can perform conversational miracles.
In the receiving line, whenever passengers asked our
laconic captain, "When did you first become a master?"
or "What was your first command?" he would hold up
the entire line of people snaking around the ballroom
waiting to shake his hand. Captain Cafiero would
enthusiastically recount his naval history to the savvy
inquirer who might have just learned the words master
or command last week in the newspaper shipping
notices. (If the passenger had simply said, "How long
have you been a captain?" or "What was your first
boat?" he or she would have gotten the captain's usual
Italian gentleman's version of the bum's rush.)

Soon you'll become addicted to the high that
establishing rapport with so many people gives you. All
it takes is reading different sections of the newspaper.

Pump Their Pulp for Even More Fuel

Then, when you crave a bigger hit of insider lingo, start
reading trade journals. Those are the closed-circulation

magazines that go to members of various industries.
Ask your friends in different jobs to lend you one so
you'll have even more fuel for the conversational fire.

All industries have one or two. You'll see big glossy
rags with names like Automotive News, Restaurant
Business, Pool and Spa News, Trucking Industry, and
even Hogs Today for people in the pig business.
(Excuse me, they call themselves "swine practitioners."
Hey, you never know when, to make your next big sale,
it will help to speak pig.) Any one issue will give you a
sample of their lingo and inform you of the hottest
issues in that field.

When it comes to people's hobbies and interests,
browse through magazines on running, working out,
bicycling, skiing, swimming, and surfing. Large
magazine stores carry biker rags, boxer rags, bowler
rags, even bull-riding rags. You'll find thousands of
special-interest magazines published every month.

Several years ago, I got hooked on buying a different
one each week. It paid off quickly when a potential
consulting client invited me to dinner at her home. She
had a beautiful garden and, thanks to Flower and
Garden Magazine, I could throw out insider terms like
ornamentals, annuals, and perennials. I could even
keep up when the discussion turned to the advantages of
growing from seeds or bulbs.

Because I was so fluent in "flower," she invited me to
take a longer walk with her to see her private back
gardens. As we
TECHNIQUE #41
READ THEIR RAGS

Is your next big client a golfer, runner, swimmer,
surfer, or skier? Are you attending a social function
filled with accountants or Zen Buddhists—or
anything in between? There are untold thousands of
monthly magazines serving every imaginable
interest. You can dish up more information than
you'll ever need to sound like an insider with anyone
just by reading the rags that serve their racket. (Have
you read your latest copy of Zoonooz yet?)

strolled, I gradually changed the subject from
chrysanthemums to the consulting work I could do for
her company. Who was leading whom down the garden
path?

Is the world getting smaller, or are we getting bigger?
Today's Renaissance man or woman is comfortable and
confident anywhere. The next technique helps you be an
insider wherever you find yourself on the planet, and it
saves you from fulfilling the world's fantasy of "the
ugly American."

@ AQ

42 How to Talk When You're
in Other Countries

Say you're traveling abroad on business and you want to
be a "global insider." What's the first thing on your to-
do list? Get a passport and a phrase book, right? After
all, who wants to wander around Rome not knowing
how to ask for a restroom? Or be thirsty in Kuala
Lumpur not knowing how to ask for a soda? However,
there's something most of us forget to pack, often with
dire consequences—a book on international customs.

A friend of mine, a fellow speaker named Geraldine,
was excited about her first speech in Japan. To be
comfy on her long flight to Tokyo, she donned her
favorite designer jeans and a casual jacket. Fourteen
hours and 6,737 miles later, four impeccably dressed
Japanese gentlemen greeted her at Narita Airport.
Smiling and bowing low, they handed her their business
cards. With her carry-on bag in one hand, Geri took
their cards with the other. She thanked them, glanced
briefly at the cards, and packed them safely into her
back pocket. She then pulled one of her business cards
out of her purse and, sensitive to the fact that they might
have difficulty pronouncing Geraldine, wrote her
nickname "Geri" above her printed name. The
gentlemen hovered over her card, turning it over to
examine it a few times, before one of them put it in his
briefcase.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
When the five of them arrived at the hotel, they
invited Geri for tea in the lobby. While sipping tea, the
gentlemen presented her with a small gift which she
eagerly opened. One of Geri's most charming qualities
is her instinctive warmth and effusiveness. She was
thrilled with the gift and, in typical Geri style, she
squealed, "Oh, it's beautiful!" as she gave each of the
gentlemen a little hug.

At this point, the four Japanese gentlemen stood up
in unison like four frowning Siamese twins and, bowing
only very slightly, mumbled "Sayonara" and promptly
left. Poor Geri was flabbergasted. What did she do
wrong?

Everything! First, the jeans. Even if you're coming
off a bicycle in Asia, you do not meet clients casually
dressed. The second mistake was Geri's vulgar handling
of their business cards. In Asia, the business card is one
of the most important protocol tools. It is always
presented and accepted reverently with both hands.
(Except in Moslem Asia where the left hand is
considered unclean.)

Geri then put their cards away much too quickly. In
Asia, people use business cards as a conversation
starter. You chat about each other's cards and work and
do not put theirs away until they gently and respectfully
place yours in safekeeping. Shoving it into her back
jeans pocket was the ultimate disrespect.

Geri didn't discover her fourth gaffe until she
returned home. One of her colleagues Bill, a seasoned
business traveler, analyzed the fiasco for her. Bill told
her the reason the gentlemen had turned Geraldine's
card over and over when she gave it to them at the

@ AQ

airport was to find her name, title, and company printed
in Japanese on the other side. The flip side of Geri's
card was, of course, blank.

Then, fifth horror of horrors, Geri should not have
written on the card. Cards in Asia are not exactly
sacred, but one should never deface them with messy
handwriting.

The sad tale of Geri and the Japanese gets worse. Bill
broke the bad news to her: she should not have opened
the gift in front of her clients. Why? Because in a land
where saving face is critical, it would be embarrassing
to discover the gift they gave was not as nice as the one
they received. (Yikes, Geri hadn't even given them a
gift!) Gaffe number seven.

Geri's little squeal when receiving the gift was also a
boo-boo. In Asia, the lower the tone of voice, the higher
the rank. The final flub was, of course, giving the
gentlemen a thank-you hug. Hugging, highly revered in
certain parts of the world is, in Japan, absolutely
unacceptable with a new client.

Needless to say, Geri has not been invited back to
Japan. However, she does have a gig coming up in El
Salvador. This time she's smart. She's studying up on
the customs there. Happily, she's finding she can hug to
her heart's content. However she shouldn't use her (or
anybody else's) first name. Oh, and she must not
introduce herself as an "American." After all,
Salvadorans are Americans, too!

The differences 'round the world go on and on.
Whenever I travel, I have to hit myself over the head
and realize I'm not in the anything-goes ol' USA. I love

yy)

a 7.
to travel in jeans, I'm an incurable hugger, and I can't
wait to see what's in a gift box anybody gives me.
However, whenever I plan to leave Uncle Sam's shores,
I check on foreign customs to see how much of myself I
can be.

TECHNIQUE #42
CLEAR "CUSTOMS"

Before putting one toe on foreign soil, get a book on
dos and taboos around the world. Before you shake
hands, give a gift, make gestures, or even
compliment anyone's possessions, check it out. Your
gaffe could gum up your entire gig.

There are some excellent books on international

customs. You'll find the names of a few in the notes.12-

19

Don't be like another hapless colleague of mine who
almost blew a big business deal with a Brazilian. Just
before signing the contract, he gave the OK sign with
his thumb and forefinger. Little did he know he was
telling his new business partner to go have intercourse
with himself. You never know until it's too late.

Now we come to where being an insider shows
immediate, tangible, and calculable rewards. And where
being an outsider really hurts—right in your pocket or
purse.

@ AQ

43 How to Talk Them into
Getting the "Insider's
Price" (on Practically
Anything You Buy)

Never underestimate human ingenuity when it comes to
getting what you want. Many people expand the adage,
"All's fair in love and war" to "All is fair in love, war,
and buying what I want." To get a table at a posh
restaurant on a busy night, using a celebrity name is an
old ploy. My favorite maitre d' told me he gets a lot of
Robert De Niros phoning in a reservation. When their
party of six or eight arrives, he hears, "I'm so sorry, Rob
wasn't feeling well this evening."

One woman, frustrated when her fake celebrity name
didn't work, shouted at him, "Look, who the hell do I
have to be to get a table? I'll be anyone you want me to
be, Goldie Hawn, Steffi Graf, Fergie—just tell me."
Some people try a last-minute approach. They simply
walk up to the maitre d' at an overbooked restaurant,
point to any name on the reservation book and say,
"That's us."

You'll witness the same cunning at overbooked
hotels. Several months ago I was checking into a
popular hotel for which, fortunately, I had a confirmed
reservation. A loudmouthed man in front of me in line
shouted at the desk clerk, "Whaddaya mean, no room?
I'm staying in this hotel tonight. If you don't have a

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
room, I'm sleeping right here on the floor." His temper
tantrum was not working.

"And I warn you," he continued, "I sleep in the
nude!"

He got a room.

These crafty childish tactics are not recommended.
Rather, I suggest a more principled technique called
"Bluffing for Bargains." It was born one afternoon
sitting with an insurance broker Mr. Carson. He was
trying to sell me a homeowner's policy. Of course I
wanted the most coverage for the least cash. Carson was
a smooth operator and he was patiently explaining to
me in layman's terms the benefits of certain riders he
was pushing.

Just as he started discussing disasters like wars and
hurricanes, his phone rang. With apologies, he picked
up the receiver. It was one of his colleagues. Suddenly a
metamorphosis took place before my eyes. The
sophisticated salesman became a palsy-walsy, regular,
down-home kinda guy chatting it up with his old buddy
about umbrellas. I thought they were discussing the
weather.

Then the conversation turned to floaters. I now
assumed they were talking about an eye problem. It
took a while for me to realize that umbrella policies and
floaters were part of the insurancese they were
speaking.

A few minutes later, Carson said, "Yeah, OK, so
long, buddy," and put the phone down. He cleared his
throat and again transmogrified back into the formal

@ AQ

sales agent patiently defining damages and deductibles
to a naive client.

Sitting there listening to bafflegab like subrogation
and pro rata liability, | began to ponder, "If Carson's
colleague who just called wanted to buy insurance, he
would have gotten a much better policy, much cheaper."
In practically every industry, vendors give two prices on
goods or services—one to insiders and one to you and
me.

Before I let myself get angry about this, I thought it
through. Is it unfair? Not really. If the vendor doesn't
have to spend time being salesman or psychologist
answering the endless stream of novice questions, he
can afford to give his best price. Carson wouldn't have
had to take twenty minutes explaining to his colleague
(as he did to me) why, if a tornado takes your house, it's
considered "an act of God." Therefore, you lose. When
knowledgeable associates buy products, the vendor is
happily reduced to nothing more than a purchasing
agent. For very little work, he makes a small profit and
is satisfied.

A little bit of knowledge goes a long way when
you're buying something. If you have insight into your
real estate broker's bottom line, he's more apt to give
you the better price. If you are facile with the insider
words caterers and car salesmen use to pad their profits,
if you're savvy to techniques moving companies and
mechanics use to bilk the unsuspecting, if you are on
the lookout for lawyers' methods of fattening fees—in
short, if you know the ropes, you will not get ripped off.
You don't need to know a lot, just a few insider terms.
The pro assumes, since you are conversant in some

yy)

a 7.
esoteric industry terms, you also know the best deal and
rock-bottom price.

No one put it better than my housepainter, Iggy.
"Sure," he told me, "you gotta know how to talk to a
painter. Not me, but a lotta them other guys, they're
gonna get whatever they can. It's only human nature.
Especially if you're a woman and you deal with 'em
smart, like I'm gonna tell you how, their hair will stand
on end. They'll say to themselves, 'Hey, dis is no babe in
the woods. I better deal straight."

"OK, Iggy, how?"

He said, "Tell them guys, 'Look the walls need very
little prepping. You're not going to have to spend much
time scraping and spackling. It's a clean job." Iggy told
me these few sentences alone can save you hundreds of
dollars. Why? Right away the painter knows you know
the score and that the most time-consuming part for him
is preparing the surface (prepping in painterese).
Therefore, it's his biggest markup item.

"Then," Iggy continued, "when you tell 'em there will
be no cutting in [painting two colors next to each other],
your price goes down again. Be sure and tell 'em not to
leave any holidays [unpainted or sparsely painted spots]
and you get a more careful job." I'm only sorry I don't
have an Iggy in every field to give me a crash course in
how to deal.

How to Deal When There's No Iggy in
Your Life

Here's how to get the best price and the best deal from
anyone. Find your Iggy Informer. If you have a friend in

@ AQ

the business, get the lingo from him. If not, instead of
going straight to the vendor you want to buy from, visit
several others first. Talk with them. Learn a little lingo
from each.

For instance, suppose you want to buy a diamond.
Instead of going right to your favorite jewelry shop and
asking dumbbell diamond questions, go to the
competition. Make friends with the salesclerk and pick
up a few gems of diamondese. You'll learn jewelers say
stones, not diamonds. When you're talking about the top
of the stone, they say table; the widest part is the girdle;
the bottom is the cutlet. If the stone looks yellow, don't
say yellow, say cape. If you see flaws, don't say flaws,
say inclusions or gletz. If you still don't like the stone,
don't say "I'd like to see something better," say finer.
(Don't ask me why. That's just the way the diamond
crowd talks.)

Then, when you've got your lingo down, go to where
you want to buy. Because you now speak diamond, you
get a much better price.

TECHNIQUE #43
BLUFFING FOR BARGAINS

The haggling skills used in ancient Arab markets are
alive and well in contemporary America for big-
ticket items. Your price is much lower when you
know how to deal.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Before every big purchase, find several vendors—
a few to learn from and one to buy from. Armed
with a few words of industryese, you're ready to
head for the store where you're going to buy.

Soon you'll be asking furriers where the skins were
dressed, moving companies for their ICC performance
record, and lawyers the hourly rate of paralegals and
associates. Then these folks, like Iggy the painter, will
say to themselves, "Hey, dis is no babe in the woods—I
better deal straight."

Let us now delve deeper into the world of being an
insider. This time we explore how to give your
conversation partner the sense that you share not only
experiences but the heavy stuff. You share beliefs and
values in life.

@ AQ

PART FIVE

HOW TO SOUND LIKE YOU'RE
PEAS IN A POD

"Why, We're Just Alike!"

If you squint your eyes and look up carefully at a flight
of birds, you'll see finches flying with finches, swallows
soaring with swallows, and yellow birds winging it with
yellow birds. The avian apartheid escalates. You'll never
see a barn swallow with a bank swallow, or even a
yellow bird hanging out with a yellow finch. Somebody
said it shorter: Birds of a feather flock together.

Happily, humans are smarter than birds. In one
respect, at least: we have brains capable of overcoming
bias. Really smart human beings work together, play
together, and break bread together. Does that mean their
comfort level is high? Well, that depends on the human
being. Our purpose here is not to examine the absurdity
of apartheid. It is to leave no stone unturned in making
sure people are completely comfortable doing business
or pleasure with you.

It has been proven beyond a doubt, people are most
receptive to those they feel have the same values in life.
In one study, individuals were first given a personality
and beliefs test2° They were then paired off with a
partner and told to go spend time together. Before
meeting, half the couples were told they were very
similar in beliefs to their partner. The other half were
told they were dissimilar. Neither statement was true.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
However, when quizzed afterward on how much they
liked each other, partners who believed they were
similar liked each other a lot more than the couples who
thought themselves to be dissimilar, demonstrating we
have a predisposition toward people we believe are just
like us. We are most comfortable giving our business
and friendship to those we feel share our values and
beliefs in life. To that end I offer six techniques to
create sensations of similarity with everyone you wish.

Along with making more profound rapport with
customers, friends, and associates, using the following
techniques develops a deeper understanding and
empathy with people of all races and backgrounds. It
also opens doors that might otherwise be closed to you.

@ AQ

44 How to Make Them Feel
You're of the Same
"Class"

Just like the finch flaps its wings faster than the gliding
eagle, people of different backgrounds move differently.
For example, Westerners used to the wide-open plains
stand farther from each other. Easterners, systematically
sardined into subways and crowded busses, stand closer.
Asian Americans make modest movements. Italian
Americans make massive ones.

At teatime, the finishing-school set genuflects and
gracefully lowers derrieres onto the sofa. When the
ladies reach for a cup, they hold the saucer in one hand
and the cup in the other, pinkie ever so slightly
extended. Folks who never finished any manners school
make a fanny dive in the middle of the sofa and clutch
the cup with both hands.

Is one right? Is the other wrong? No. However, top
communicators know when doing business with a
derriere-dipping pinkie extender or a fanny-plopping,
two-fisted mug grabber, they darn well should do the
same. People feel comfortable around people who move
just like they do.

I have a friend who travels the country giving an
outrageous seminar called "How to Marry the Rich."
Genie was once in a Las Vegas casino when a television

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
reporter asked if she could tell the real rich from the
great pretenders.

"Of course," Genie answered.

"All right," challenged the reporter. "Who is the
wealthiest man in this room?" Convened at the next
table were three men in tailored suits (Hayward of
Mayfair, London, no doubt), handmade shirts (Charvet
of Place Vendéme in Paris, no doubt), and sipping
scotch (single-malt Laphroaig from the Scottish island
of Islay, no doubt). The reporter, naturally, assumed
Genie would choose one of these likely candidates.

Instead, with the scrutiny of a hunting dog, Genie's
eyes scanned the room. Like a trained basset hound, she
instinctively pointed a long red fingernail at a fellow in
torn jeans at a corner table. She murmured, "He's very
rich."

Flabbergasted, the reporter asked Genie, "How can
you tell?"

"He moves like old money," she said. "You see,"
Genie went on to explain, "there's moving like old
money. There's moving like new money. And there's
moving like no money." Genie could tell the unlikely
chap in the corner was obviously sitting on big assets
and all because of the way he moved.

TECHNIQUE #44
BE A COPYCLASS

@ AQ

Watch people. Look at the way they move. Small
movements? Big movements? Fast? Slow? Jerky?
Fluid? Old? Young? Classy? Trashy?

Pretend the person you are talking to is your
dance instructor. Is he a jazzy mover? Is she a
balletic mover? Watch his or her body, then imitate
the style of movement. That makes your
conversation partner subliminally real comfy with
you.

They're Buying You, Too

If you're in sales, copy not only your customer's class
but the class of your product as well. I live in a section
of New York City called Soho, which is a few blocks
above the famous-for-being-trashy Canal Street. Often,
clutching my purse tightly and dodging the crowds on
Canal Street, I'll pass a pickpocket-turned-salesman-for-
the-day. He furtively looks around and flashes a greasy
handkerchief at me with a piece of jewelry on it. "Psst,
wanna buy a gold chain?" His nervous thief's demeanor
alone could get him arrested.

Now, about sixty blocks uptown, you'll find the
fashionable and very expensive Tiffany's jewelry store.
Occasionally, clutching my fantasies of being able to
afford something therein, I stroll through the huge gilt
doors. Imagine one of the impeccably dressed sales
professionals behind the beveled glass counters
furtively looking around and saying to me, "Psst, wanna
buy a diamond?"

No sale!

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
Match your personality to your product. Selling
handmade suits? A little decorum please. Selling jeans?
A little cool, please. Selling sweat suits? A little sporty,
please. And so on for whatever you're selling.
Remember, you are your customers’ buying experience.
Therefore you are part of the product they're buying.

@ AQ

45 How to Make Them Feel
That You're Like
"Family"

Have you ever been gabbing with a new acquaintance
and, after a few moments, you've said to yourself, "This
person and I think alike! We're on the same
wavelength." It's a fabulous feeling, almost like falling
in love.

Lovers call it "chemistry." New friends talk of
"instant rapport," and businesspeople say a "meeting of
minds." Yet it's the same magic, that sudden sense of
warmth and closeness, that strange sensation of "Wow,
we were old friends at once!"

When we were children, making friends was easier.
Most of the kids we met grew up in the same town and
so they were on our wavelength. Then the years went
by. We grew older. We moved away. Our backgrounds,
our experiences, our goals, our lifestyles became
diverse. Thus, we fell off each other's wavelengths.

Wouldn't it be great to have a magic surfboard to help
you hop right back on everybody's wavelength
whenever you wanted? Here it is, a linguistic device
that gets you riding on high rapport with everyone you
meet. If you stand on a mountain cliff and shout "hello-
oh" across the valley, your identical "hello-oh" thunders
back at you. I call the technique "Echoing" because, like

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
the mountain, you echo your conversation partner's
precise words.

It All Started Across the Ocean

In many European countries, you'll hear five, ten, or
more languages within the language. For example, in
Italy, the Sicilians from the south speak a dialect that
seems like gobbledygook to northern Italians. In an
Italian restaurant, I once overheard a diner discover his
waiter was also from Udine, a town in northeastern Italy
where they speak the Friulano dialect. The diner stood
up and hugged the waiter like he was a long-lost
brother. They started babbling in a tongue that left the
other Italian waiters shrugging.

In America we have dialects, too. We just aren't
conscious of them. In fact we have thousands of
different words, depending on our region, our job, our
interests, and our upbringing. Once, when traveling
across the country, I tried to order a soda like a Coke or
7-Up in a highway diner. It took some explaining before
the waitress understood I wanted what she called a
"pop." Perhaps because the English-speaking world is
so large, Americans have a wider choice of words for
the same old stuff than any language I've encountered.

Family members find themselves speaking alike.
Friends use the same words, and associates in a
company or members in a club talk alike. Everyone you
meet will have his or her own language that
subliminally distinguishes them from outsiders. The
words are all English, but they vary from area to area,
industry to industry, and even family to family.

@ AQ

The Linguistic Device That Says "We're
on the Same Wavelength"

When you want to give someone the subliminal feeling
you're just alike, use their words, not yours. Suppose
you are selling a car to a young mother who tells you
she is concerned about safety because she has a young
"toddler." When explaining the safety features of the
car, use her word. Don't use whatever word you call
your kids. Don't even say child-protection lock, which
was in your sales manual. Tell your prospect, "No
toddler can open the window because of the driver's
control device." Even call it a toddler-protection lock.
When Mom hears toddler coming from your lips, she
feels you are "family" because that's how all her
relatives refer to her little tyke. Suppose your prospect
had said kid or infant. Fine, echo any word she used.
(Well, almost any word. If she'd said my brat, you
might want to pass on Echoing this time.)

Echoing at Parties

Let's say you are at a party. It's a huge bash with many
different types of people. You are first chatting with a
lawyer who tells you her profession is often maligned.
When it comes your turn to speak, say profession too. If
you say job, it puts a subconscious barrier between you.

Next you meet a construction worker who starts
talking about his job. Now you're in trouble if you say,
"Well, in my profession. . ." he'd think you were being
hoity-toity.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
After the lawyer and the construction worker, you
talk to several freelancers—first a model, then a
professional speaker, finally a pop musician. All three
of these folks will use different words for their work.
The model brags about her bookings. The professional
speaker might say bookings, but he is more apt to boast
of his speaking engagements. A pop musician might
say, "Yeah, man, I get a lot of gigs." It's tough to
memorize what they all call their work. Just keep your
ears open and echo their word after they say it.

Echoing goes beyond job names. For example if you
are chatting with a boat owner and you call his boat an
it, he labels you a real landlubber. (He reverently refers
to his beloved boat, of course, as a she.) If you listen
carefully, you hear language subtleties you never
dreamed existed. Would you believe using the wrong
synonym for a seemingly uncomplicated word like have
labels you a know-nothing in somebody else's world?
For example, cat lovers purr about having cats. But
horse people would say owning horses. And fish folk
don't own fish. They talk about keeping fish. Hey, no
big deal. But if you use the wrong word, your
conversation partner will assume, correctly, that you are
a stranger in his or her hobbyland.

The Peril of Not Echoing

Sometimes you lose out by not Echoing. My friend Phil
and I were talking with several guests at a party. One
woman proudly told the group about the wonderful new
ski chalet she had just purchased. She was looking
forward to inviting her friends up to her little chalet in
the mountains.

@ AQ

"That's wonderful," said Phil, secretly hoping for an
invitation. "Where exactly is your cabin?"
KERPLUNK! There went Phil's chances for an
invitation to the lady's chalet.

I couldn't resist. After the conversation, I whispered
to my friend, "Phil, why did you insult that woman by
calling her chalet a cabin?" Phil scratched his head and
said, "What do you mean insult her? Cabin is a
beautiful word. My family has a cabin in Cape Cod and
I grew up loving the word, the associations, the joy of a
cabin." (In other words, the connotations of cabin.)
Well, fine, Phil. The word cabin may be beautiful to
you, but obviously the skier preferred the word chalet.

Professional Echoing

In today's sales environment, customers expect
salespeople to be problem solvers, not just vendors.
They feel you don't grasp their industry's problems if
you don't speak their language.

I have a friend, Penny, who sells office furniture.
People in publishing, advertising, broadcasting, and a
few lawyers are among her clients. Penny's sales
manual says office furniture. However, she told me, if
she used the word office with all of her clients, they'd
assume she knew nothing about their respective
industries.

She told me her client, the purchasing officer in
advertising, talks about his advertising agency. Penny's
publishing client says publishing house. The lawyers
talk about furniture for their firm, and her radio clients
use the word station instead of office. "Hey," Penny

yy)

a 7.
says, "it's their salt mine. They can call it whatever the
heck they please. And," she added, "if I want to make
the sale, I'd better call it the same thing."

TECHNIQUE #45
ECHOING

Echoing is a simple linguistic technique that packs a
powerful wallop. Listen to the speaker's arbitrary
choice of nouns, verbs, prepositions, adjectives—
and echo them back. Hearing their words come out
of your mouth creates subliminal rapport. It makes
them feel you share their values, their attitudes, their
interests, their experiences.

Echoing Is Politically Correct Insurance

Here's a quiz: You're talking with a pharmacist and you
ask her, "How long have you worked at the drugstore?"
What's wrong with that question?

Give up? It's the word drugstore. Pharmacists abhor
the word because it conjures up many industry
problems. They're used to hearing it from outsiders, but
it's a tip-off that they are unaware of, or insensitive to,
their professional problems. They prefer pharmacy.

Recently, at a reception, I introduced one of my
friends, Susan, as a day-care worker. Afterward Susan
begged, "Leil, puleeze do not call me a day-care
worker. We're child-care workers." Whoops! Time and
recent history quickly make certain terms archaic.

@ AQ

A group's intense preference for one word is not
arbitrary. Certain jobs, minorities, and special-interest
groups often have a history the public is not sensitive to.
When that history has too much pain attached to it,
people invent another word that doesn't have bitter
connotations.

I have a dear friend, Leslie, who is in a wheelchair.
She says whenever anyone says the word handicapped,
she cringes. Leslie says it makes her feel less than
whole. "We prefer you say person with a disability."
She then gave a moving explanation. "We people with
disabilities are the same as every other able-bodied
person. We say AB," she added. "ABs go through life
with all the same baggage we do. We just carry one
extra piece, a disability."

It's simple. It's effective. To show respect and make
people feel close to you, Echo their words. It makes you
a more sensitive communicator—and keeps you out of
trouble every time.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
46 How to Really Make It
Clear to Them

I recently had to make a presentation to fifteen men in a
corporate meeting. "OK," I said to myself as I stood up,
"fifteen Martians and one Venusian." No problem! I'd
read Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus. I'd
explored neurological differences in men's and women's
brains. I knew all about gender-specific body-language
signals. Hey, I teach communications differences. I was
well prepared to talk to these men, get my point across,
and fend any questions.

Everything started out fine. I'd conceived my
presentation clearly and concisely, developed each
theme, and presented it flawlessly. Then, I sat down and
confidently invited questions and open discussion.

That's when it fell apart. All I remember is a
horrifying barrage of questions couched in football
analogies.

"Do you think we dropped the ball on that one?" one
man asked.

"Yeah," another responded. "But can we make a
fumble recovery?"

Those two I understood. However, when it got to
pass coverage and intentional grounding, I started to
lose it. When one guy raved about a Hail Mary pass
being needed to save the deal, I suffered the ultimate
humiliation. I had to ask, "Uh, what does that mean?"

yy)
The guys looked at each other knowingly and then
smiled condescendingly as they explained it to me.

That night I had sadistic fantasies of fifteen women
running the company and one man left scratching his
head as we bandied about childbirth analogies.

"We won't get his new proposal ‘til the third
trimester," reports the account exec.

"Yeah, but that's six months away. Let's get it by C-
section," responds the comptroller.

"Why bother?" asks the marketing VP. "All his ideas
are developed in vitro anyway."

"I'm about to go into postpartum depression,"
murmurs the CEO. The lone male employee is left as
confused and humiliated as I was in the face of football
analogies.

Ahem, the aim of this book is not to feed fiendish
fantasies, but to improve communications. To that end, I
offer the following technique based on analogies, not
just football analogies. Because old-boy analogies are
unsportsman-like conduct with the girls.

On-Target Analogies Hit Bull's-Eye

Analogies can be an effective communications tool—if
you evoke images from the life of the person you are
talking to. Men don't use football analogies to obfuscate
matters or to confuse women but to clarify situations for
each other. Analogies from the sport bring situations to
life for men because generally they watch more football
than women.

@ AQ

Moving on to other sports analogies: everyone knows
what the speaker means when he or she hears, "We'll
never strike out with this solution." Nevertheless, the
image would be more compelling to a baseball fan as
would analogies like "caught on the fly," "hitting the
dirt," "or throwing a spit ball."

You've heard people say, "This solution is right on
target." We all understand it. But the phrasing would be
more dramatic for archery enthusiasts. If your listener
were a bowler, speaking of "gutter balls" or "big splits"
would bring whatever you were discussing to life. If
your business buddies were basketball fans, analogies
like "hook shot" or "air ball" would land right in their
basket. If your client wrestles, saying "feints" and
"scissor holds" would be the way to grab him.

These analogies might sound far-fetched to you. But
they are potent communications tools when they evoke
your conversation partner's world. Why not use the
most powerful terms possible to get your point across
and make the sale? I call the technique "Potent
Imaging."

TECHNIQUE #46
POTENT IMAGING

Does your customer have a garden? Talk about
"sowing the seeds for success." Does your boss own
a boat? Tell him or her about a concept that will
"hold water" or "stay afloat." Maybe he is a private

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
pilot? Talk about a concept really "taking off." She
plays tennis? Tell her it really hits the "sweet spot."

Evoke your listener's interests or lifestyle and
weave images around it. To give your points more
power and punch, use analogies from your listener's
world, not your own. Potent Imaging also tells your
listeners you think like them and hints you share
their interests.

Pardon me while I return momentarily to my sadistic
fantasies of the hopelessly confused lone male
employee. The all-female management team is now
arguing the corporate strategy using, not football of
course, but ballet analogies.

"I say let's do the corporate takeover allegro," she
suggests. "Nah, you gotta go adagio in these matters,"
her colleague responds.

"But what if they do a tour jeté while we're poised in
fifth?"

"C'mon did you ever see a good pas seul from their
president?"

The top woman settles it. "I say let's just give him a
little révérence, and then a grand battement in the
balls."

@ AQ

47 How to Make Them Feel
You Empathize (Without
Just Saying "Yep, Uh
Huh, Yeah")

While listening to someone talk, we often vocalize "uh
huh" or purr throaty little "umm" sounds to reassure the
speaker we have heard their words. In fact, with some
it's such a habit, the noises escape their throats
unconsciously. My friend Phil is a consummate,
constant, and incontinent "ummer" whenever I'm
talking. Occasionally, if I'm feeling contentious after
he's given one of his agreeable "umms" in response to
something I've said, I challenge him with, "OK, Phil,
what did I say?"

"Uh, well, gosh . . ." Phil has no idea. It's not his
fault. He's male. Men are especially guilty of the not-
really-listening umm habit. Once, when I was on a
monologue about nothing in particular, Phil was on a
real umm roll. To test his listening skills, I slipped in,
"Yes, this afternoon I think I'll go out and get tattooed
all over my body."

Phil nodded his habitual "uh huh."

Well, umming is better than a blank stare. However,
it's not the choice of top communicators. Try replacing
your umms with full-blown empathizers.

What Are Empathizers?

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
Empathizers are simple, short, supportive statements.
Unlike "uh huh," they are complete sentences such as "I
can appreciate you decided to do that," or "That really is
exciting." Empathizers can be one-sentence positive
critiques like "Yes, that was the honorable thing to do,"
or "It's charming you felt that way."

When you respond with complete sentences instead
of the usual grunts, not only do you come across as
more articulate, but your listener feels that you really
understand.

TECHNIQUE #47
EMPLOY EMPATHIZERS

Don't be an unconscious ummer. Vocalize complete
sentences to show your understanding. Dust your
dialogue with phrases like "I see what you mean."
Sprinkle it with sentimental sparklers like "That's a
lovely thing to say." Your empathy impresses your
listeners and encourages them to continue.

Of course, you pay a price. To use the right
empathizers, you do need to listen.

Now let's fine-tune this technique and explore
advanced empathizing.

@ AQ

48 How to Make Them
Think You See/Hear/Feel
It Just the Way They Do

About ten years ago, I had a roommate named Brenda.
Brenda was a tap dance teacher who didn't just tap
dance to make a living. She lived to tap. Posters of Bill
"Bojangles". Robinson and Charles "Honi" Coles
plastered her walls. She didn't walk around the house.
She tapped her way from room to room. It was noisy,
but at least, when a phone call came for Brenda, I never
had trouble finding her.

Once I asked Brenda when she got interested in tap.
She said, "From the moment I first opened my ears."
Her ears? I thought, that's strange. Most people say
"from the moment I opened my eyes." At that moment,
I realized Brenda "saw" the world more through her
ears than her eyes.

We all perceive the world through five senses. We
see the world. We hear the world. We feel the world. We
smell the world. And we taste the world. Therefore, we
talk in terms of those five senses. Proponents of
neurolinguistic programming (NLP) tell us, for each
person, one sense is stronger than others. For Brenda, it
was her hearing.

Brenda told me she grew up in a dark apartment
below street level in New York City. She remembers, as
an infant, hearing the pitter-patter of feet walking just

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
above her crib on the sidewalk. As a toddler, her tiny
ears were bombarded with honking horns, shrieking
sirens, and tire chains slapping the icy streets. She
especially remembers the clumpety-clomp of police
horses' hoofs on the pavement outside her window. Her
first perceptions of the outside world came to her
through her ears. To this day, sound dominates her life.
Brenda, the tap dancer, is an auditory person.

Since neurolinguists suggest invoking our listener's
strongest sense, I tried a few auditory references on
Brenda. Rather than saying, "That looks good to me,"
I'd say "That sounds good." Instead of saying, "I see
what you mean," I'd say, "I hear you." When I used
these auditory references, I felt she paid more attention.

So I started listening very carefully to all my friends
to discover which was their primary perception.
Sometimes I'd hear visual references like

"I see what you mean."

"That looks good to me."

"I can't picture myself doing that."
"I take a dim view of that idea."
"From my perspective..."

Wow, I thought I was really on to something!

A Wrinkle Develops

But then, whoops, at other times, I'd hear that same
friend say

"Yeah, I hear you."

"Sure, that sounds good to me."

@ AQ

"I kept saying to myself it would work."

"That has a negative ring to it."
"He really tuned out on the whole idea."
"Something tells me..."

This wasn't going to be quite as easy as I'd expected.
However, I wasn't ready to give up.

Once, Brenda and I went skiing with several friends.
That night we were at a party. One of our friends was
telling a group of people, "The ski slopes were
beautiful. Everything was so crystal clear and white."

"A visual person?" I asked myself.

Another skier added, "The feel of the fresh snow on
our faces was terrific."

"Aha, a kinesthetic person," I mused silently.

Sure enough, just then, Brenda said, "Today was so
silent. The only sound you could hear was the wind in
your ears as you came swooshing down the slopes."
That little riff convinced me there was something to it.

However, I still found it difficult to discern one's
primary sense.

A Simple Solution

Here's what I've found does work, and it doesn't take
too much detective work on your part. I call the
technique "Anatomically Correct Empathizers," and it's
easy to master. Unless it is obvious the person you are
speaking with is primarily visual, auditory, or
kinesthetic, simply respond in his or her mode of the

yy)

a 7.
moment. Match your empathizers to the current sense
someone is talking through. For example, suppose a
business colleague describing a financial plan says,
"With this plan, we can see our way clear in six
months." Since this time she's using primarily visual
references, say "I see what you mean" or "You really
have a clear picture of that situation."

If, instead, your colleague had said, "This plan has a
good ring to it," you'd substitute auditory empathizers
like "It does sound great," or "I hear you."

A third possibility. Suppose she had said, "I have a
gut feeling this plan will work." Now you give her a
kinesthetic empathizer like "I can understand how you
feel," or "You have a good grasp of that problem."

TECHNIQUE #48

ANATOMICALLY
EMPATHIZERS

CORRECT

What part of their anatomy are your associates
talking through? Their eyes? Their ears? Their gut?

For visual people, use visual empathizers to make
them think you see the world the way they do. For
auditory folks, use auditory empathizers to make
them think you hear them loud and clear. For
kinesthetic types, use kinesthetic empathizers to
make them think you feel the same way they do.

What about the other two senses, taste and smell?
Well, I've never run up against any gustatory or

@ AQ

olfactory types. But you could always compliment a
chef by saying, "That's a delicious idea." And if you are
talking to your dog (olfactory, of course), tell him "The
whole idea stinks."

The next technique helps create affinity with a single
word.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
49 How to Make 'Em Think
We (Instead of You vs. Me)

By just eavesdropping for a few moments on any two
people chatting, you could tell a lot about their
relationship. You could tell if they were new
acquaintances or old friends. You could tell whether a
man and a woman were strangers or a couple.

You wouldn't even need to hear friends call each
other "pal," "buddy," or "mate." You wouldn't need to
hear a man and a woman whisper "dear," "sweetheart,"
or "turtle dove." It wouldn't matter what they were
discussing or even their tone of voice. You could even
be blindfolded and tell a lot about their relationship
because the technique I'm about to share has nothing to
do with body language.

How? A fascinating progression of conversation
unfolds as people become closer. Here's how it
develops:

Level One: Clichés

Two strangers talking together primarily toss clichés
back and forth. For instance, when chatting about the
universally agreed-upon world's dullest subject—the
weather—one stranger might say to the other,
"Beautiful sunny weather we've been having." Or, "Boy,
some rain, huh?" That's level one, clichés.
Level Two: Facts

People who know each other but are just acquaintances
often discuss facts. "You know, Joe, we've had twice as
many sunny days this year to date as last." Or, "Yeah,
well, we finally decided to put in a swimming pool to
beat the heat."

Level Three: Feelings and Personal
Questions

When people become friends, they often express their
feelings to each other, even on subjects as dull as the
weather. "George, I just love these sunny days." They
also ask each other personal questions: "How about
you, Betty? Are you a sun person?"

Level Four: We Statements

Now we progress to the highest level of intimacy. This
level is richer than facts and creates more rapport than
feelings. It's we and us statements. Friends discussing
the weather might say, "If we keep having this good
weather, it'll be a great summer." Lovers might say, "I
hope this good weather keeps up for us so we can go
swimming on our trip."

A technique to achieve the ultimate verbal intimacy
grows out of this phenomenon. Simply use the word we
prematurely. You can use it to make a client, a prospect,
a stranger feel you are already friends. Use it to make a
potential romantic partner feel the two of you are
already an item. I call it the "Premature We." In casual

@ AQ

conversation, simply cut through levels one and two.
Jump straight to three and four.

Ask your prospect's feelings on something the way
you would query a friend. ("George, how do you feel
about the new governor?") Then use the pronoun we
when discussing anything that might affect the two of
you. ("Do you think we're going to prosper during his
administration?") Make it a point to concoct we
sentences, the kind people instinctively reserve for
friends, lovers, and other intimates. ("I think we'll
survive while the governor's in office.")

The word we fosters togetherness. It makes the
listener feel connected. It gives a subliminal feeling of
"you and me against the cold, cold world." When you
prematurely say we or us, even to strangers, it
subconsciously brings them closer. It subliminally hints
you are already friends. At a party, you might say to
someone standing behind you at the buffet line, "Hey,
this looks great. They really laid out a nice spread for
us." Or, "Uh-oh, we're going to get fat if we let
ourselves enjoy all of this."

TECHNIQUE #49
THE PREMATURE WE

Create the sensation of intimacy with someone even
if you've met just moments before. Scramble the
signals in their psyche by skipping conversational
levels one and two and cutting right to levels three

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
and four. Elicit intimate feelings by using the magic
words we, us, and our.

Well, we have just explored how to copy our
conversation partners' movements with Be a Copyclass,
echo their words, evoke Potent Images from their
world, create a bond through their primary sense with
Anatomically Correct Empathizers, and _ establish
subliminal friendship with words like we.

What else do friends, lovers, and close associates
have in common? A history. The final technique in this
section is a device to give a fairly new acquaintance the
warm and fuzzy feeling the two of you have been
together for a long, long time.

@ AQ

50 How to Create a Friendly
"Private Joke" with
Them

Lovers whisper phrases in each others' ears that mean
nothing to anyone but themselves. Friends crack up
over a few words that sound like gobbledygook to
anyone overhearing them. Close business associates
chuckle about shared experiences.

One company I've worked with has_ seen
reengineering, empowerment, TQM, and team building
come and go in one decade. At company parties, the
employees never fail to crack up over the time when the
whole company—managers to mail-room clerks—
scrambled up a twenty-nine-foot pole together all in the
name of team building. The CEO slipped down the pole
and broke his big toe. At the next weekly meeting, the
CEO shook his crutch and caustically announced, "No
more team exercises!" Thus, the death of team building
—and the birth of a private joke.

Out of shared experiences like this, a company
culture grows. These employees have a history and a
language to go with it. To this day, whenever they want
to put an abrupt end to any idea, they say, "Let's shake a
crutch at it" or "Let's slide that one down the flagpole."
They all smile. Nobody knows what they mean except
fellow employees.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
The playwright Neil Simon, sometimes with a single
word, can make an entire Broadway audience
understand two performers onstage are either married or
longtime friends. The actor simply says something to
the actress that makes no sense to the audience. Then
both of them laugh uproariously. Everybody gets the
message: these two people are an item.

Every time my friend Daryl and I meet, we don't say
"Hello." We say "Quack." Why? We met at a party five
years ago and, in our first conversation, Daryl told me
he grew up on a duck farm. When I told him I'd never
seen a duck farm, he performed the best human
imitation of a duck I'd ever seen. He flipped his head
side to side looking at me first out of one eye, then the
other, all the while flapping his arms and quacking. I
got such a laugh out of his performance that it inspired
him to do a full flat-footed duck waddle for me. It was
contagious. Together we waddled around the room
flapping and quacking. We made absolute fools of
ourselves that evening.

TECHNIQUE #50
INSTANT HISTORY

When you meet a stranger you'd like to make less a
stranger, search for some special moment you shared
during your first encounter. Then find a few words
that reprieve the laugh, the warm smile, the good
feelings the two of you felt. Now, just like old

@ AQ

friends, you have a history together, an Instant
History.

With anyone you'd like to make part of your
personal or professional future, look for special
moments together. Then make them a refrain.

The next day, my phone rang. I picked up the
receiver to hear, not "Hello, this is Daryl," but simply,
"Quack." I'm sure that's what started our friendship. To
this day, every time I hear his "Quack" on the phone, it
floods me with happy, if a tad embarrassing, memories.
It recalls our history and renews our friendship no
matter how long it's been since we last quacked at each
other.

Now What's Left?

Chemistry, charisma, and confidence are three
characteristics shared by big winners in all walks of life.
Part One helped us make a dynamic, confident, and
charismatic first impression with body language. In Part
Two, we put smooth small-talk lyrics to our body ballet.
Then in Part Three, we seized hints from the big boys
and big girls so we're contenders for life's big league.
Part Four rescued us from being tongue-tied with folks
with whom we have very little in common. And in Part
Five, we learned techniques to create instant chemistry,
instant intimacy, instant rapport.

What's left? You guessed it—making people feel
really good about themselves. But compliments are a
dangerous weapon in today's world. One mishandling
and you can butcher the relationship. Let us now

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
@ AQ
ee

Ds)

explore the power of praise, the folly of flattery, and
how you can use these potent tools effectively. PART SIX

HOW TO DIFFERENTIATE THE
POWER OF PRAISE FROM THE
FOLLY OF FLATTERY

Kids are experts at getting what they want. Perched on
Papa's knee, "Oh Daddy, you're so wunnerful. I know
you'll buy me that new doll." The next morning, with
Mama in the supermarket, "Oh Mommy, I love you.
You're the most bestest mommy in the world. I know
you'll buy me that chocolate munchie."

From the hungry infant's instinctive cooing as
Mommy approaches the crib to the car salesman's
calculated praise as the prospect walks into the
showroom, compliments come naturally to people when
they want something from somebody. In fact,
compliments are the most widely used and thoroughly
endorsed of all getting-what-you-want techniques.
When Dale Carnegie wrote "Begin with praise," fifteen
million readers took it to heart. Most of us still think
praise is the path to extracting what we want from
someone.

And yes, if it's as simple as dolls from daddy and
munchies from mommy, it may be. But the business
world has changed dramatically since Dale Carnegie's
day. In today's world, not every smiling flatterer has the
power to procure through praise.

The Malaise of Unskilled Praise
You give someone a compliment. You smile, waiting to
see the warm feelings engulf the recipient. You may
have to wait a long time.

If he or she has a speck of suspicion your praise is
self-serving, it has the opposite effect. If your
compliment is insincere or unskilled, it can wreck your
chances of ever being trusted by that person again. It
can abort a potential relationship before it ever gets off
the runway.

However, skilled praise is a different story. When
done well, it gives the relationship immediate liftoff. It
can make a sale, win a new friend, or rejuvenate a
marriage on a golden anniversary.

What is the difference between praise that lifts and
flattery that flattens? Many factors enter the equation.
They include your sincerity, timing, motivation, and
wording. They also involve the recipient's self-image,
professional position, experience with compliments, and
judgment of your powers of perception. Of course it
entails the relationship between the two of you and how
long you have known each other. If you're
complimenting someone by phone, E-mail, or snail
mail, it even involves subtleties such as whether you've
ever seen his or her face, either in person or a
photograph.

Mind boggling, isn't it? Sociologists' research shows:
1) a compliment from a new person is more potent than
from someone you already know, 2) your compliment
has more credibility when given to an unattractive
person or an attractive person whose face you've never
seen, 3) you are taken more seriously if you preface
your comments by some self-effacing remark—but only

@ AQ

if your listener perceives you as higher on the totem
pole. If you're lower, your self-effacing remark reduces
your credibility. Complicated, this complimenting stuff.

Rather than dizzying ourselves with the surfeit of
specific studies, let's just put some terrific techniques in
our little bag of tricks. Each of the following meets all
the criteria of social scientists' findings. Here are nine
effective ways to praise in the new millennium.

yy)

a 7.
51 How to Compliment

Someone (Without
Sounding Like You're
Brownnosing)

The risk in giving a compliment face-to-face is, of
course, that the distrustful recipient will assume you are
indulging in shameless, obsequious pandering to
achieve your own greedy goals.

It's a sad reality about compliments. If you lay a big
one out of the blue on your boss, your prospect, or your
sweetie, the recipient will probably think you're
brownnosing. Your main squeeze will assume you're
suffering guilt over something you've done. So what's
the solution? Hold back your sincere esteem?

No, simply deliver it through the grapevine. The
grapevine has long been a trusted means of
communication. From the days when Catskills comics
insisted the best ways to spread news were "telephone,
telegraph, and tell-a-woman," we have known it works.
Unfortunately the grapevine is most often associated
with bad news, the kind that goes in one ear and over
the back fence. But the grapevine need not be laden
only with scuttlebutt and sour grapes. Good news can
travel through the same filament. And when it arrives in
the recipient's ear, it is all the more delectable. This is
not a new discovery. Back in 1732, Thomas Fuller
wrote, "He's my friend that speaks well of me behind

Ds)
my back." We're more apt to trust someone who says
nice things about us when we aren't listening than
someone who flatters us to our face.

No-Risk Praise (Do It Behind Their
Back)

Instead of telling someone directly of your admiration,
tell someone who is close to the person you wish to
compliment. For instance, suppose you want to be in the
good graces of Jane Smith. Don't directly compliment
Jane. Go to her close associate Diane Doe and say, "You
know, Jane is a very dynamic woman. She said
something so brilliant in the meeting the other day.
Someday she'll be running this company." I place ten-
to-one odds your comment will get back to Jane via the
grapevine in twenty-four hours. Diane will tell her
friend, "You should hear what so 'n' so said about you
the other day."

TECHNIQUE #51
GRAPEVINE GLORY

A compliment one hears is never as exciting as the
one he overhears. A priceless way to praise is not by
telephone, not by telegraph, but by tell-a-friend. This
way you escape possible suspicion that you are an
apple-polishing, bootlicking, egg-sucking, back-
scratching sycophant trying to win brownie points.
You also leave recipients with the happy fantasy that

@ AQ

you are telling the whole world about their
greatness.

When you gave Grapevine Glory to Jane, Diane
became the carrier pigeon of that compliment. Which
leads us to the next technique where you become the
carrier pigeon of other people's compliments.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
52 How to Be a "Carrier
Pigeon" of Good Feelings

Carrier pigeons have a long and valiant history. The
dauntless winged messengers, often maimed by shellfire
and dying after delivering their messages, have saved
the lives of thousands. One tenacious little bird named
Cher Ami is credited with saving two hundred lives
during the Battle of the Argonne in World War I. The
brave one-legged little birdie, one of his wings shot
through, carried a message dangling from his remaining
ligament. The blood-smeared little ball of feathers
arrived just in time to warn that the Germans were
about to bomb the city.

Stumpy Joe, another plucky pigeon, had such a
heroic battle-scarred career that his fans stuffed him,
mounted him, and put him on display in the National
Air Force Museum in Dayton, Ohio. And millions of
other brave birds have brought joyful messages to
racing-pigeon enthusiasts around the world. In that fine
tradition, I present the complimenting technique I call
"Carrier Pigeon Kudos."

Whenever you hear a laudatory comment about
someone, don't let it end there. You don't need to write
it, roll it up in a capsule, strap it to your leg like Stumpy
Joe, and fly it to the recipient. Nevertheless, you can
remember the kudo and verbally carry it to the person
who will get the most pleasure—the person who was
complimented.

Ds)
Keep your ears open for good things people say
about each other. If your colleague Carl says something
nice about another colleague, Sam, pass it on. "You
know, Sam, Carl said the nicest thing about you the
other day."

Your sister tells you your first cousin is a dynamite
relative. Go ahead and call Cuz’.

Your mother tells you she thinks Manny did a great
job mowing the lawn. Pass it on to him. Hey, we all like
a little appreciation, even from Mom.

Here's where it benefits you. Everyone loves the
bearer of glad tidings. When you bring someone third-
party kudos, they appreciate you as much as the
complimenter. Call it gossip if you like. This is the good
kind.

TECHNIQUE #52
CARRIER PIGEON KUDOS

People immediately grow a _ beak and
metamorphosize themselves into carrier pigeons
when there's bad news. (It's called gossip.) Instead,
become a carrier of good news and kudos. Whenever
you hear something complimentary about someone,
fly to them with the compliment. Your fans may not
posthumously stuff you and put you on display in a
museum like Stumpy Joe. But everyone loves the
carrier pigeon of kind thoughts.

Carry More Cargo than Compliments

@ AQ

Another way to warm hearts and win friends is to
become a carrier pigeon of news items that might
interest the recipient. Call, mail, or E-mail people with
information they might find interesting. If your friend
Ned is a furniture designer in North Carolina and you
see a big article in the Los Angeles Times about
furniture trends, fax it to him. If your client Sally is a
sculptor in Seattle and you see her work in someone's
home in New York, send her a note.

My friend Dan lives in San Francisco, and whenever
he runs across anything in the paper on
communications, he clips it and sends it to me. No note,
just "FYI—Regards, Dan" in the corner. He's like my
own private West Coast clipping service.

Try it. Think of the money you'll save on greeting
cards. A relevant clipping is the big winner's way of
saying, "I'm thinking of you and your interests."

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
53 How to Make 'Em Feel
Your Admiration "Just
Slipped Out"

Here's yet another caress for someone's ego. Don't give
a blatant compliment. Merely imply something
magnificent about your conversation partner. Several
months ago, I was visiting an old friend in Denver
whom I hadn't seen in a long time. When he came to my
hotel to pick me up, he said, "Hello, Leil, how are you?"
Then he paused, looked at me, and said, "You've
obviously been well." Wow, I felt terrific. He implied I
looked good and that made my evening.

Guess the Good Lord decided I shouldn't have too
swollen a head, however, because later that evening,
after my friend dropped me off, I got into the hotel
elevator. A maintenance man entered at the third floor.
He smiled at me. I smiled back. He looked at me again
and said, "Gosh, ma'am, was you a model? [Oh, man,
was I feeling on top of the world now!] . . . when you
was young?" he continued.

CRASH! Why couldn't he have zipped his lip before
the zinger? I loved the implication in the first part of his
comment. But the second implied I was now an old
lady. Ruined my next day. Heck, his unintentional low
blow ruined my week. In fact I still feel wretched about
it.

Ds)
You have to be careful of unintentional bad
implications. If, visiting a new city, you stop someone
on the street and say, "Excuse me, could you tell me if
there are any fine dining restaurants nearby?" you are
implying the passerby is a person of taste. If, however,
you ask that same passerby, "Hey, know any down and
dirty bars in this burg?" your implication is entirely
different. Find a way to imply magnificent qualities of
those you wish to indirectly compliment.

TECHNIQUE #53
IMPLIED MAGNIFICENCE

Throw a few comments into your conversation that
presuppose something positive about the person
you're talking with. But be careful. Don't blow it like
the well-intentioned maintenance man. Or the
southern boy who, at the prom, thought he was
flattering his date when he told her, "Gosh, Mary
Lou, for a fat gal you dance real good."

@ AQ

54 How to Win Their Hearts
by Being an "Undercover
Complimenter"

Next in our agglomeration of joy spreaders is a
technique I call "Accidental Adulation." Once, at a
small dinner party, the subject turned to space travel.
The gentleman seated to my right said, "Leil, you're
much too young to remember this, but when Apollo 11
landed on the moon.. ."

If my life depended on it, I couldn't tell you what the
chap said next. I simply remember smiling to myself
and stretching to get a glimpse of my youthful self in
the dining-room mirror. Of course I remember July
1969. Like the rest of the world, I was glued to the
television watching Neil Armstrong's size 9’4B boot hit
the moon. However, I certainly was not thinking of
moon travel at that dinner party. I was too busy reveling
in the fact that this lovely man didn't think I was old
enough to remember 1969. I assumed his opinion of my
youthfulness just slipped out. Therefore it must be
sincere.

Sure! Now that I think about it, he probably knew
darn well I was old enough to remember the moon
landing. I bet he was using the maneuver Accidental
Adulation. But it doesn't matter. My warm memories of
him remain. Accidental Adulation is slipping praise into
the secondary part of your point, putting it in verbal
parentheses.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Try It. You'll Like It. They'll Love It.

Try Accidental Adulation and see smiles break out on
the faces of the recipients. Tell your sixty-five-year-old
uncle, "Anyone as fit as you would have zipped right up
those steps, but boy, was I out of breath." Tell a
colleague: "Because you're so knowledgeable in
contract law, you would have read between the lines,
but stupidly, I signed it."

You run the danger, of course, that you will please
the recipient so profoundly with your parenthetical
praise, he or she won't hear your main point.

TECHNIQUE #54
ACCIDENTAL ADULATION

Become an undercover complimenter. Stealthily
sneak praise into the parenthetical part of your
sentence.

Just don't try to quiz anyone later on your main
point. The joyful jolt of your accidental adulation
strikes them temporarily deaf to anything that
follows.

So far we have explored four covert compliments:
Grapevine Glory, Carrier Pigeon Kudos, Implied
Magnificence, and Accidental Adulation. There are
times, of course, when blatant praise does work. The
next techniques will hone your skills in this precarious
but rewarding venture.

@ AQ

55 How to Make 'Em Never
Forget You with a "Killer
Compliment"

Would you like to have a little trick up your sleeve
potent enough to kick start commerce, ignite a
friendship or even a love affair? I'll give you one, but
only if you heed its warning label. You must register
your tongue as a lethal weapon once you've mastered
the following technique. It's called the "Killer
Compliment."

It was born one night some years ago after my then-
roommate, Christine, and I had just returned home from
a holiday party. As we were taking off our coats, she
had a silly smile on her face and a faraway look in her
eye.

"Christine, are you OK?" I asked.

"Oh yes," she purred. "I'm going to go out with that
man."

"Man? What man?"

"Oh, you know," she said, chastising me for not
knowing, "the one who told me I had beautiful teeth."

Teeth!

That night I happened to walk by the bathroom door
as Christine was getting ready for bed. I saw her

grinning at herself in the mirror, tilting her head from
side to side, and brushing each individual tooth. All the

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
while she kept her eyes glued to the mirror, inspecting
each one for the beauty her new admirer commented on.
I realized the fellow who had given Christine the
unusual compliment had made her day—and had made
a killer impression on her. Thus the Killer Compliment
came into being.

What is the Killer Compliment? It is commenting on
some very personal and specific quality you spot in
someone. A Killer Compliment is not "I like your tie" or
"You're a very nice person." (The first is not personal
enough and the second is not specific enough.) A Killer
Compliment is more like "What exquisite eyes you
have," (very specific) or "You have a wonderful air of
honesty about you," (very personal).

Because delivering your first Killer Compliment is
difficult, I trick my seminar participants into pulling it
off. About midway through the program, I'll ask them to
close their eyes and think about a partner they had in an
earlier exercise. Then I say, "Now recall one attractive
physical quality or personality trait you observed in
your partner. Not one you would necessarily comment
on," I caution. "Perhaps your partner had a lovely smile
or a twinkle in her eye. Perhaps he exuded a sense of
calm or credibility. Got it in your mind?"

Then the thunderbolt: "OK, now go find your partner
and tell them the nice quality you noticed." "What? Tell
them?" The thought paralyzes them. One by one,
however, they courageously seek their partners and
deliver their Killer Compliments. As people hear a
stranger tell them they have beautiful hands or
penetrating brown eyes, joy fills the room. Laughter
explodes in every corner. I am now looking out at a sea

@ AQ

of smiles and happy blushes. Everyone loves receiving
his or her personal Killer Compliment. And everyone
develops friendly feelings toward the giver.

The Killer Compliment User's Manual

Just like a cannon, if you don't use the Killer
Compliment correctly, it can backfire. Here's the user's
manual that comes with the mighty missile.

TECHNIQUE #55
KILLER COMPLIMENT

Whenever you are talking with a stranger you'd like
to make part of your professional or personal future,
search for one attractive, specific, and unique quality
he or she has.

At the end of the conversation, look the
individual right in the eye. Say his or her name and
proceed to curl all ten toes with the Killer
Compliment.

Rule #1: Deliver your Killer Compliment to the
recipient in private. If you are standing with a group of
four or five people and you praise one woman for being
fit, every other woman feels like a barrel of lard. If you
tell one man he has wonderful carriage, every other
feels like a hunchback. You also make the blushing
recipient uncomfortable.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Rule #2: Make your Killer Compliment credible.
For example, I'm tone-deaf. If I'm forced to sing even a
simple song like "Happy Birthday," I sound like a sick
pig. If anyone in earshot were foolish enough to tell me
they liked my voice, I'd know it was hogwash.

Rule #3: Confer only one Killer Compliment per
half year on each recipient. Otherwise you come
across aS insincere, groveling, obsequious, pandering,
and a thoroughly manipulative person. Not cool.

With careful aim, the Killer Compliment captures
everyone. It works best, however, when you use it
judiciously on new acquaintances. If you want to praise
friends every day, employ the next technique.

@ AQ

56 How to Make 'Em Smile
with "Itty-Bitty Boosters"

In contrast to the big guns of Killer Compliments for
strangers, and The Tombstone Game for loved ones,
which we will learn shortly, here's a little peashooter
you can pop off at anyone, anytime. I call it "Little
Strokes."

Little Strokes are short, quick kudos you drop into
your casual conversation. Make liberal use of Little
Strokes with your colleagues in the office:

"Nice job, John!"
"Well done, Kyoto!"
"Hey, not bad, Billy!"

I have one friend who uses a lovely Little Stroke. If I
do something he likes, he says, "Not too shabby, Leil."

You can also use Little Strokes on the everyday
achievements of your loved ones. If your spouse just
cooked a great meal, "Wow, you're the best chef in
town." Just before going out together, "Gee, honey, you
look great." After a long drive, "You did it! It must have
been tiring." With your kids, "Hey, gang, great job
cleaning up your room."

I once read a poignant Reader's Digest article about a
little girl who often misbehaved. Her mother had to
continually reprimand her. However, one day, the little
girl had been especially good and hadn't done a single
thing that called for a reprimand. The mother said,

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
"That night after I tucked her in bed and started
downstairs, I heard a muffled noise. Running back up, I
found her head buried in the pillow. She was sobbing.
Between the sobs she asked, 'Mommy, haven't I been a
pretty good girl today?"

The question, the mother said, went through her like
a knife. "I had been quick to correct her," she said,
"when she was wrong. But when she tried to behave, I
hadn't noticed it and I put her to bed without one word
of appreciation."

Adults are all grown-up little girls and little boys. We
may not go to bed sobbing if the people in our lives
don't notice when we are good. Nevertheless, a trace of
those tears lingers.

TECHNIQUE #56
LITTLE STROKES

Don't make your colleagues, your friends, your
loved ones look at you and silently say, "Haven't I
been pretty good today?" Let them know how much
you appreciate them by caressing them with verbal
Little Strokes like "Nice job!" "Well done!" "Cool!"

Little Things Mean a Lot

Little Strokes are indeed, little. But as every woman
knows, they mean a lot. I've yet to meet a woman who
wouldn't agree with these lyrics from an old song sung
by Kitty Kallen:

@ AQ

Blow me a kiss from across the room.
Say I look nice when I'm not.

Touch my hair as you pass my chair.

Little things mean a lot.

Send me the warmth of a secret smile
To show me you haven't forgot.

For always and ever, now and forever,
Little things mean a lot.

To further complicate the art of the compliment, one
must consider timing. Blatant, barefaced, brazen flattery
turns all but the blindest egomaniacs off. But the human
animal never fails to amaze observers. There are
moments when, if you don't give a blatant, barefaced,
brazen compliment—even to a bright individual—you
lose. The following technique defines those moments.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
57 How to Praise’ with
Perfect Timing

I'll never forget the first time I gave a luncheon speech
in front of strangers. I'd practiced for the stuffed
animals on my bed and my roommate, Christine, but
this was my debut in front of a real audience.

As I shakily got to my feet, I looked out at seventeen
smiling Rotarians waiting for my words of wit and
wisdom. My tongue was dry as chalk dust, my palms as
wet as a fish. The audience might as well have been
seventeen thousand judges waiting to sentence me to
eternal humiliation if I didn't inform and entertain each.
I gave a last panic-stricken glance at Christine, who had
driven me to the club, and began, "Good afternoon. It
gives me great pleasure . . ."

Thirty minutes later, amidst scattered applause which
I feared was obligatory, I crawled back to my seat next
to Christine. I looked expectantly at her. She smiled and
said, "You know this dessert isn't bad. Have some."

Dessert? "Dessert! Dammit, Christine, how did I
do?" I silently screamed at her. A few minutes later
Christine told me how much she and, she assumed,
everyone else enjoyed my talk. Nevertheless, by then it
was too late. The crucial compliment-craving moment
had passed.

Quick as a_Hiccup, You Must
Compliment NOW

yy)
When the doctor sadistically smacks your knee with
that nasty little rubber hammer, you instantly give a
knee jerk. And when people make a coup, you must
instantly hit them with a knee-jerk "Wow, you were
great!"

Say they've just successfully negotiated a deal,
cooked a terrific Thanksgiving turkey, or sung a solo
song at the birthday party. No matter whether their
accomplishment is trivial or triumphant, you must
praise it immediately—not ten minutes later, not two
minutes later—immediately. The moment the winner
walks out of the boardroom, the kitchen, the spotlight,
the victor wants to hear only one sound: "WOW!"

TECHNIQUE #57
THE KNEE-JERK "WOW!"

Quick as a blink, you must praise people the
moment they finish a feat. In a wink, like a knee-jerk
reaction say, "You were terrific!"

Don't worry that they won't believe you. The
euphoria of the moment has a strangely numbing
effect on the achiever's objective judgment.

But What If They Really Bombed?

"Are you asking me to lie?" you ask. Yes. Absolutely,
positively, resoundingly, YES. This is one of the few
moments in life where a lie is condoned by the most
ethical individuals. Big winners realize that sensitivity

ew

@ AQ

to an insecure performer's ego takes momentary
precedence over their deep commitment to the truth.
They also know, when sanity returns to the recipient
and they suspect they screwed up, it won't matter. He or
she will retroactively appreciate your sensitivity and
forgive your compassionate falsehood.

We've talked a lot about giving compliments, both
covert and overt. Now let's talk about a skill that, for
many, is even harder—receiving them.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
58 How to Make 'Em Want
to Compliment You

We have a national weakness: we don't know how to
receive a compliment! In fact, I would like to dedicate
the following technique to my French friends who
contend the French are better at everything. Well, I
concede one point. The French are, indeed, better at
receiving compliments. I'll explain how shortly.

Americans, unfortunately, are beastly at accepting
adulation. If someone compliments you and you react
clumsily out of embarrassment, you unwittingly start a
vicious cycle. A friend ventures a compliment:

He: (smiling) "Hey, that's a nice dress you're
wearing."

She: (frowning) "Oh, this old thing?"

He: (thinking) "Whoops, she didn't seem to like
hearing that. She thinks I have terrible taste to like that
dress. I'd better keep my mouth shut."

Three weeks later...

She: (thinking grumpily) "He doesn't ever give me
compliments anymore. What a boor!"

He: (thinking gloomily) "What's her problem?"

"Girls Don't Like What?"

Several months ago in one of my seminars, the group
was discussing compliments. One fellow insisted that

Ds)
"girls don't like compliments."
"Girls don't like what?" I asked incredulously.

He explained, "I once told a woman she had beautiful
eyes. And she said, 'Boy, are you blind." The poor chap
was so wounded by her reaction, he became gun-shy
and had not aimed a compliment at a female since.
What a shame for womankind and what a blight on his
social skills.

Upon receiving a compliment, many people demur or
proffer an embarrassed little "Thank you." Worse, they
protest, "Well, not really, but thanks anyway." Some
people toss it off with, "just luck." When you react this
way, you visit a grave injustice on the complimenter.
You insult a well-meaning person's powers of
perception.

"Vous étes Gentil"

Leave it to French folks to come up with a congenial
catchall phrase. Upon receiving a compliment, they say,
"Vous étes gentil." Loosely translated, that is "How kind
of you."

An American saying "How kind of you" could sound
stilted—like the little flower girl in My Fair Lady trying
to be cultured. Nevertheless, we Yanks can express the
French gentil sentiment with a technique I call
"Boomeranging."

When you toss a boomerang, it makes an almost 180-
degree swerve in midair and soars back to land at the
feet of the thrower. Likewise, when someone tosses a
compliment your way, let the good feelings soar back to
the tosser. Don't just say "Thanks." (Or worse, "Oh it's

@ AQ

nothing.") Let them know of your gratitude and find a
way to compliment them for their compliment. A few
examples:

She says, "I like those shoes." You say, "Oh I'm so
happy you told me. I just got them."

He says, "You really did a good job on this project."
You say, "Oh, that's so nice of you to tell me. I
appreciate your positive feedback."

You can also Boomerang the good feelings back
when people ask you a question about your family, a
project, an event, or anything that shows they are
interested in you.

Your colleague asks, "How was your vacation in
Hawaii?" You answer, "Oh, you remembered I went to
Hawaii! It was great, thanks."

Your boss asks, "Are you over your cold now?" You
answer, "I appreciate your concern. I feel much better
now."

Whenever someone shines a little sunshine on your
life in the form of a compliment or concerned question,
reflect it back on the shiner.

TECHNIQUE #58
BOOMERANGING

Just as a boomerang flies right back to the thrower,
let compliments boomerang right back to the giver.
Like the French, quickly murmur something that
expresses "That's very kind of you."

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Incidently, in that seminar, I decided to do
womankind a favor by setting malekind straight on
compliments once and for all. I asked the fellow who
swore women hated praise to give three women sitting
near him a sincere compliment. He chose the woman
with "the beautiful silver hair sitting behind him," the
girl with the "hands like a pianist" to his left, and the
lady with "the lovely deep-blue eyes" on his right. He
told them all.

Three women waltzed out of the room that night
feeling a little better about themselves than when they
walked in. And, I hope, for all the women he would yet
meet in his life, one man left with a changed attitude
about compliments.

As we come to the end of our exploration of praise, I
want to make sure you're aiming dead center for
people's hearts. Whether you're giving little Carrier
Pigeon Kudos or laying a Killer Compliment on your
conversation partner, this next technique keeps you on
target.

@ AQ

59 How to Make a Loved
One Feel You Are THE
Partner for Life

Do you remember when you were a kid the hundreds of
times Mommy's and Daddy's friends asked, "And what
do you want to be when you grow up?" That was our
cue to regale our adoring audience with dreams of being
a ballerina, a firefighter, a nurse, a cowboy, or a movie
star. Well, most of our lives wound up being a little
closer to butcher, baker, or candlestick maker.
Nevertheless, we all still have fantasies of our own
greatness.

Even though most of us cashed in our childhood
dreams of being the star we thought we'd be (so we
could make some money), we all know that deep down
we are very, very, very special. We say to ourselves,
"Maybe the world will little note nor long remember
how brilliant, how wonderful, how witty, how creative
or caring I really am. However, those who truly know
and love me—they will recognize my greatness, my
magic, my specialness over all other ordinary mortals."
When we find people with the supernatural powers of
perception to recognize our remarkableness, we become
addicted to the heady drug of their appreciation.

Praising someone you know and love requires a
different set of skills from complimenting a stranger.
The formula to bring someone even closer to you

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
personally or professionally follows. I call it "The
Tombstone Game." It requires a little setup.

Step one: In a quiet moment chatting with your
friend, your loved one, or your business partner, tell him
or her that the other day you were reading about—of all
things—tombstones! "The piece was about," you say,
"what people fantasize will be inscribed above their
grave after they die." You learned that people want the
quality they are most proud of in life etched in stone.
Then say, "The variety is surprising. Everyone has a
different self-image, a different deep source of pride."
Examples:

Here lies John Doe. He was a brilliant scientist.
Here lies Diane Smith. She was a caring woman.

Here lies Billy Bucks. By golly, he could make
people laugh.

Here lies Jane Wilson. She spread joy wherever she
went.

Here lies Harry Jones. He lived life his way.

Step two: Reveal to your partner what you would like
carved on your tombstone. Be serious about your
revelation to encourage him or her to do likewise.

Step three: Now, you pop the question, "You know,
Joe, when all is said and done, what are you most proud
of? What would you like the world to most remember
about you? What would you want the world to see
carved on your tombstone?"

Perhaps your business partner Joe says, "Well, I
guess I'd sort of like people to know that I'm a man of
my word." Listen carefully. If he expounds on it, take

@ AQ

note of every nuance. Then file it away in your heart
and don't say a word about it again. Joe will forget you
ever played The Tombstone Game with him.

Step four: Let at least three weeks pass. Then,
whenever you want to improve the relationship, feed the
information back to your partner in the form of a
compliment. Say "Joe, you know the reason I really
appreciate being in business with you is because you're
a man of your word."

WOW, that hits Joe like a 747 out of the sky.
"Finally," he says to himself, "someone who appreciates
me for who I really am." Telling him you admire him
for the same reason he admires himself has an impact
on Joe like no other compliment in the world.

Now, suppose your friend is Billy Bucks, the one
who wanted his wit carved on his tombstone. You'd say,
"Billy, ol' buddy, you're terrific. I loves ya 'cause you
can really make people laugh."

"I Love You Because..." (You Fill in
the Blank)

Suppose your significant other is Jane Wilson in the
preceding example. Tell your beloved, "Jane, I love you
because you spread joy wherever you go."

Suppose your life partner is Harry Jones. You take
his hand and say, "Harry, I love you because you live
life your way." BLAM! You have found that tender spot
where the heart and the ego blend.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
TECHNIQUE #59
THE TOMBSTONE GAME

Ask the important people in your life what they
would like engraved on their tombstone. Chisel it
into your memory but don't mention it again. Then,
when the moment is right to say "I appreciate you"
or "I love you," fill the blanks with the very words
they gave you weeks earlier.

You take people's breath away when you feed
their deepest self-image to them in a compliment.
"At last," they say to themselves, "someone who
loves me for who I truly am."

The Tombstone Game compliments are not
interchangeable. Billy Bucks might not appreciate your
calling him a man of his word; Billy's thing is humor.
Jane might not value your thinking she lives life her
way. Her source of pride is spreading joy wherever she
goes.

It's wonderful to tell people you appreciate or love

them. When it matches what they appreciate or love
about themselves, the effect is overpowering.

@ AQ

PART SEVEN
HOW TO DIRECT DIAL THEIR
HEARTS

Hundreds of people have formed impressions of you
through that little device on your desk, your bed table,
your kitchen wall. And they've never actually met you.
They've never seen your smiles, felt your frowns.
They've never grasped your hand or enjoyed your hugs.
They've never read your body language or seen how
you dress. Everything they know about you came
through tiny filaments, sometimes from hundreds of
miles away. But they feel they know you just from the
sound of your voice. That's how powerful the telephone
is.

Powerful, yes, but not always accurate. For years I
dealt with my travel agent only by phone. Rani, my
faceless agent whom I'd never met in person, got me
rock-bottom prices on airfares, cars, and hotels. But her
snippy phone personality really ticked me off. A dozen
times I vowed to find another agent.

One Monday morning several years ago, I received
bad news and had to book an immediate flight home for
a family emergency. I had no time to wait in line at the
airport, so I jumped in a cab and asked the driver to wait
in front of the travel agency while I grabbed tickets and
a boarding pass.

Like a lit fuse, I zipped into Rani's agency for the
first time. Seeing my frenzied rush, the woman sitting at
the front desk sympathetically jumped up. She gave me

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
a reassuring smile and asked how she could help me. As
I blithered on about my need for an emergency ticket,
she smiled, nodded, and lunged immediately into
action. "What a terrific lady!" I thought as she printed
out the tickets.

Moments later, darting out gratefully grasping the
tickets in my fist, I called out over my shoulder, "By the
way, what's your name?"

"Leil, I'm Rani," she said. I whirled around and saw a
thoroughly congenial woman with a big smile on her
face waving to wish me a safe trip. I was dumbfounded!
Why had I previously thought she was so snippy? Rani
was, well, so nice.

Sitting back in the cab on the way to the airport, I
figured it all out. Rani's friendliness—her warm smile,
her nods, her good eye contact, her body language, her
"I'm here for you" attitude—were all silent signals that
didn't travel through wires. I closed my eyes and tried to
remember the voice I had heard moments ago. Yes, it
was Rani's same crisp, curt pronunciation. But her
friendly body language made her seem like a different
person from the brusque agent I'd dealt with on the
phone. Rani's phone personality and her demeanor in
person were completely different shows.

I realized it's the same with all of us. Your
personality, mine, and everyone's could be likened to a
show, a theatrical performance. You want to make sure
yours is a box-office smash, not a flop. The following
ten techniques will get your phone personality rave
reviews.

@ AQ

60 How to Sound More
Exciting on the Phone

I have a friend, Tina, who designed costumes for an off-
off-Broadway show that became a smash hit a few years
ago. The tiny show was such a critical success, it won
the heart of an angel—a backer—and it went to
Broadway. There the show laid a big fat egg.

When I read the bad news, I called Tina. "Tina, why
did the show get such bad reviews on Broadway?" Tina
told me that, sadly, the director didn't insist the actors
and actresses change their performances to adapt to the
new surroundings. The actors' understated movements,
which moved small audiences alternately to laughter
and tears, were lost in the big Broadway house.
Audiences couldn't see their subtle gestures and
poignant facial expressions. Tina told me the performers
neglected to make their movements much bigger to fit
the new medium.

That excellent advice is not just for actors. Whenever
you are talking, you must consider your medium. If
your face were on a big movie screen, you might get
your message across with a wink or an eyebrow raise.
On radio, however, that would be meaningless. Because
listeners couldn't see your wink, you'd have to say
something like "Hi, Cutie." Because listeners couldn't
see your raised eyebrows, you'd have to say, "Wow, I'm
surprised!"

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Your body language and facial expressions comprise
more than half your personality. When people don't see
you, they can get an entirely wrong impression as I did
with Rani. To get your personality across on the phone,
you must translate your emotions into sound. In fact,
you have to exaggerate the sound because studies have
shown people lose 30 percent of the energy level in
their voices on the phone.

Say you meet an important new contact tomorrow.
When you're introduced, you shake her hand, you fully
face her. You make good, strong eye contact and let a
sincere smile flood over your face. You even nod and
smile, listening intently as she speaks. She likes you a
lot.

But how good an impression could you make on that
VIP if both you and she were blindfolded and the two of
you had your hands tied behind your backs? That's the
handicap you suffer on the phone.

If she couldn't see you, you'd have to substitute
words to let her know you're agreeing or listening.
You'd have to somehow verbalize that you're smiling
and use her name more to replace the eye contact. You'd
be using the technique I call "Talking Gestures."

To make up for your missing eye contact, punctuate
your phone conversations with "Uh huh" or "I hear
you." So your listener knows you're nodding in
approval, verbalize "I see," "Oh that's great," "No
kidding," "Interesting," and "Tell me more!"

She didn't see you hitting your head in surprise?
Better say "What a surprise!" or "You don't say!"

@ AQ

He just said something impressive and he can't see
your look of admiration? Try "That was wise of you" or
"You're no dummy!"

Of course, you need a big verbal smile in your
repertoire. Try "Oh, wow, that's funny!" Obviously
you're going to choose phrases that match your
personality and the situation. Just make sure your phone
listeners hear your emotions.

TECHNIQUE #60
TALKING GESTURES

Think of yourself as the star of a personal radio
drama every time you pick up the phone. If you
want to come across as engaging as you are, you
must turn your smiles into sound, your nods into
noise, and all your gestures into something your
listener can hear. You must replace your gestures
with talk. Then punch up the whole act 30 percent!

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
61 How to Sound Close
(Even if You're Hundreds
of Miles Away)

When you're not sitting across from each other resting
your elbows on the same desk, your forks on the same
table, or your heads on the same pillow, you need a
substitute for intimacy. How can you create closeness
when the two of you are hundreds of miles apart? How
can you make the person you're talking to on the phone
feel special when you can't pat their back or give them a
little hug?

The answer is simple. Just use your caller's name far
more often than you would in person. In fact, shower
your conversations with his or her name. When your
listener hears it, it's like receiving a verbal caress:

"Thanks, Sam."

"Let's do it, Betty."

"Hey, Demetri, why not?"

"It's really been good talking to you, Kathi."

Saying a person's name too often in face-to-face
conversation sounds manipulative. However, on the
phone the effect is dramatically different. If you heard
someone say your name, even if you were being jostled
around in a big noisy crowd, you'd perk up and listen.

Likewise, when your phone partner hears his or her own
name coming through the receiver, it commands

Ds)
attention and recreates the familiarity the phone robs
from you.

If your listener is drifting, it brings him right back. If
she's opening mail, she stops. If he's picking his teeth,
he pulls the pick out. When you say someone's name on
the phone, it's like yanking the person into the room
with you.

TECHNIQUE #61
NAME SHOWER

People perk up when they hear their own name. Use
it more often on the phone than you would in person
to keep their attention. Your caller's name re-creates
the eye contact, the caress, you might give in person.

Saying someone's name repeatedly when face-to-
face sounds pandering. But because there is physical
distance between you on the phone—sometimes
you're a continent apart—you can spray your
conversation with it.

@ AQ

62 How to Make 'Em Happy
They Called You

Brr-ing! No matter whether you hear the ring in the
boardroom, the bedroom, or the bathroom, self-styled
telephone experts tell you, "Smile before answering."
Some pros even suggest you perch a mirror right next to
your phone to monitor your grin.

Been there, done that, doesn't work. One evening, in
the middle of my weekly mud-pack facial, the phone
rang. The horror of seeing myself in the phone mirror
made my voice as hideous as my face. I immediately
trashed the pro's advice along with the mirror. Who
wants to sound like a dizzy Pollyanna? A no-brain
Cheshire cat? A lonely recluse whose life is so dull that
the big thrill of the day is a phone call? Any phone call?
From anybody!

Big winners don't smile before answering. They put a
smile in their voices after they hear who is on the line.
That's when it counts. Answer the phone unemotionally,
professionally. Say your name or the name of your
company. Then when you hear who is on the line, the
little trick is to let a big smile flood over your face.

"Oh Joe, [smile] how nice to hear from you!" "Sally,
[smile] how are you?" "Bill, [smile] I was hoping it
would be you."

My friend Steve lives in Washington, D.C., and

heads a major trade association that lobbies on Capitol
Hill. Whenever I call Steve, I never know which of his

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
dozens of assistants is going to answer. Nevertheless,
whoever answers gives me the same warm response.

First he or she says, "Cable Telecommunications
Association," the individual's name, and "How may I
direct your call?" No fake friendliness. No prefab
smiles in the voice. I am sure the assistant is not
beaming back at his- or herself in any mirror.

When I say "Is Mr. Effros available? This is Leil
Lowndes calling," that's when the employee becomes
superfriendly. "Oh yes, Ms. Lowndes," he or she purrs.
"Definitely! Let me put you right through."

Wow, does that make me feel special! As I'm waiting
for Steve to come to the phone, I fantasize him sitting at
the head of a long mahogany table in his weekly staff
meeting. I can just hear him instructing his staff, "Now
if the president or some higher-ups in the White House
call, put them right through. Oh, and of course, if that
important woman Leil Lowndes calls, put her right
through, too."

While visiting Washington last year, I had lunch with
Steve. I took the opportunity to tell him what a pleasure
it was to call his office and how I appreciated his staff's
warm phone reception. I thanked him for familiarizing
each with my name and mentioning I might be calling
from time to time. Steve looked across the table at me
and blinked. "Leil," he said, "you teach telephone skills.
Haven't you caught on?"

"Huh?"
"Forgive me if I'm bursting a bubble," Steve said,

"but everyone gets that reception, no matter who's
calling."

@ AQ

"Oh!"

When a Pain in the Neck Calls

"But Steve," I protested when I'd recuperated from the
initial disappointment that I was a victim of a technique
and not a VIP, "what if the caller is unknown, a
complete stranger? Surely your staffers shouldn't fake
they know the caller."

"Of course not, Leil. In that case, I instruct them to
show energy and enthusiasm over the reason they're
calling. For example, suppose the caller is a cable
operator wanting to join our association. The caller
would get a smile and a sincere, 'Oh yes, Mr. Smith, I'll
put you right through."

"Yeah, but suppose the caller is selling office
furniture?" I challenged.

"Doesn't matter," Steve said. "The salesperson gets
the same reception after the staffer hears why he's
calling. If my staffer says warmly, 'Oh, office furniture!'
the caller feels good. And I find the salesperson is a lot
easier to deal with later."

I told him, "OK, Steve, starting tomorrow morning,
I'm going to put that 'Oh wow, I'm so happy you called
for that reason' attitude in my voice."

The next morning, the first call was my dentist's
office. "Ms. Lowndes, this call is to remind you you're
overdue for your six-month checkup."

"Oh, of course, you're so right," I cooed. "I'm so glad
you called." The receptionist sounded surprised but very
pleased at my reaction. "I can't book an appointment

yy)

a 7.
@ AQ
ee

Ds)

right now," I continued, "but I'll call you as soon as my

schedule frees up." She didn't hassle me with her usual

"Well, when do you expect that to be?" She just hung up

satisfied. (And I got what I wanted—no call from my TECHNIQUE #62
dentist's office for at least another six months.) "OH WOW, IT'S YOU!"

The second time the phone rang, it was a man who
had ordered my tape set calling to complain that one of
the tapes broke. "Oh my goodness, I'm so glad you told
me about that," I said with the enthusiasm of having
won the lottery. The caller sounded a little shocked but
obviously pleased at my reaction. "Of course, I'll get
another set out to you and I hope you accept my
apologies." Caller hung up satisfied. (And I got what I
wanted—his good will and word of mouth in spite of
my tape duplicator's blooper.)

Don't answer the phone with an "I'm just sooo happy
all the time" attitude. Answer warmly, crisply, and
professionally. Then, after you hear who is calling,
let a huge smile of happiness engulf your entire face
and spill over into your voice. You make your caller
feel as though your giant warm fuzzy smile is
reserved for him or her.

The third call was tougher. This was from a vendor I
had completely forgotten to pay. "Oh, I'm so glad you
reminded me of that bill," I lied. Again, shocked
pleasure was the caller's reaction. (I was probably the
first creditor in history who ever sounded happy she'd
called.) "In the back of my mind I felt there was one bill
I had overlooked. I'm writing the check as we speak."

Then I got my reward. The dunner said, "By the way,
don't worry about the 2 percent per month late-payment
charge. As long as we get your check by the end of the
week, it will be OK." She hung up happy. (And I got a
present—no finance charges in spite of my oversight.)

And so it went throughout the rest of the day, the rest
of the week, and ever since. Try it. You'll find you get a
lot more from anyone when you smile, after you find
out who it is or why they're calling. Use the "Oh Wow,
It's You!" technique on almost every call.
63 How to Sneak Past the
Gatekeeper

"No, No, Aaaaaagh, not The Screen!" Picture a torture
device called "The Screen." The mad scientist, laughing
maniacally, forces the victim into a giant meat grinder
that mashes him through a heavy-metal screen. It slices
his body into a million molecules before he's
reconstituted on the other side. Being screened when
you call someone's office is the emotional version of
that ordeal.

You place your cold call. "May I speak to Mr.
Jones?" you pleasantly ask.

"Who's calling?" a haughty voice responds. Of
course, your name is not prestigious enough for the
screener to grant you the exalted status of speaking to
Jones.

Her ruthless interrogation continues, "And what
company are you with?" You submit your company's
name, praying it will score with her. And then to top it
off, she has the pluck to ask, "And what's this in
reference to?" Aaaaaagh!

Several weeks after my luncheon with Steve, I had
the occasion to call him again. "Is Steve Effros
available? This is Leil Lowndes calling."

"Oh yes, Ms. Lowndes, definitely. Let me put you
right through." I start humming happily as I wait for
Steve to come to the line.

Ds)
A moment later his assistant came back and said
sympathetically, "I'm so sorry, Ms. Lowndes. Steve just
stepped out to lunch. I know he'll be sorry he missed
your call." Meanwhile, I'm still smiling. Do I suspect
that Steve didn't "just step out to lunch"? Do I suspect
he's sitting right there? Do I ever, in my wildest
paranoid dreams, think he doesn't have the time or
inclination to talk to me? Do I feel screened? No way!
I'm as happy as a carefree kitten as I leave my number
for a callback. You see, I have probably fallen for "The
Sneaky Screen."

TECHNIQUE #63
THE SNEAKY SCREEN

If you must screen your calls, instruct your staff to
first say cheerfully, "Oh yes, I'll put you right
through. May I tell her who's calling?" If the party
has already identified himself, it's "Oh of course, Mr.
Whoozit. I'll put you right through."

When the secretary comes back with the bad
news that Mr. or Ms. Bigwig is unavailable, callers
don't take it personally and never feel screened.
They fall for it every time, just like I did.

@ AQ

64 How to Get What You
Want on the Phone from
Big Shots

I know a secret about a big cat who owns an
international hotel chain with properties in six
countries. He hires and fires thousands, awards or pulls
immense contracts, borrows from major financial
institutions, and makes lavish contributions to charities.
Mr. Big Cat (we'll call him "Ed") has a respected and
immediately recognizable name in his industry. And
here's the secret: Mrs. Big Cat is the real brains behind
the operation.

I became friends with Mrs. Big Cat (we'll call her
"Sylvia") when I did some consulting for her husband's
organization. Sylvia invited me to tea one afternoon.
She sweetly apologized that this was "maid's day off" so
we'd have to fend for ourselves. As we happily perched
ourselves on the patio and were about to dive into our
tea and crumpets, the phone rang. She excused herself
to answer it.

I heard Mrs. Big Cat say, "No, I'm sorry, he's not in.
Shall I tell him who called? . . . No, I don't know when
he is planning on returning, but if you give me your
name and... No, I said I don't know what time he'll be
back .. . Yes, I'll tell him you called."

As Sylvia returned to the patio, I could she was
annoyed by the call. Always on the lookout for a good

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
phone story, I ventured a questioning look.

Picking up on my curiosity, she said, "That fool
thinks he's going to get a contribution from Ed. Ha!"
she laughed wryly. Her candor emboldened me to ask
her more. It turns out the caller, a Mr. Creighton, was a
fund-raiser for a major charity Ed was considering
contributing to. My hostess said Creighton had called
twice in the past two weeks when Ed was out. "And not
once did he greet me, ask how I was, or apologize for
the disturbance." This did not please Mrs. Big Cat.

Was it a major irritation for Mrs. Big Cat? No, only
minor. But did it mean a major loss for the little cat who
called? It sure did. In Ed and Sylvia Big Cat's
household, subtleties count. At the dinner table, Mrs.
Big Cat could say to her husband, "A very nice man
named Creighton called for you today, dear." Or she
might say, "A rather irritating chap named Creighton
called for you today." One comment or the other could
mean millions won or lost by Creighton's charity. And
all because little cat Creighton mildly ruffled Mrs. Big
Cat's whiskers.

Home advice: Salute the Spouse. Office advice:
Salute the Secretary.

TECHNIQUE #64
SALUTE THE SPOUSE

Whenever you are calling someone's home, always
identify and greet the person who answers.
Whenever you call someone's office more than once

@ AQ

or twice, make friends with the secretary. Anybody
who is close enough to answer the phone is close
enough to sway the VIP's opinion of you.

A surprising number of Big Cat spouses—and
secretaries—have deep claws into important business
decisions. When it comes hiring time, firing time,
promoting time, or buying time, many spouses have a
say. When it comes to whose calls get through, whose
proposals get put on the top of the boss's desk, who gets
luncheon appointments made, secretaries' opinions
count!

Only foolish callers don't realize all spouses and
secretaries have names. All spouses and secretaries have
lives. All spouses and secretaries have feelings. All
spouses and secretaries have influence. Deal
accordingly.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
65 How to Get What You
Want—by Timing!

When Alexander Graham Bell invented the phone, he
and his comrades had no use for such trite phrases as
"Hi, how ya doin"?" Bell and his boys never just started
spouting their ideas into their listener's ears. The first
words out of their mouths in those times were "Can you
talk?" Bell and his buddies were, of course, referring to
technical capabilities.

Little did they know, more than a hundred years later,
big winners would use a form of that same greeting.
Today, of course, "Can you talk?" means "Is it
convenient to talk?" Before launching into
conversation, they always ask "Is this a good time to
chat?" "Did I catch you at a good time?" "Do you have
a minute to discuss the widget account?"

All folks have a Big Ben in their brain that
determines how receptive they are going to be to you
and your ideas. When you mess with their internal
cuckoo clock, they won't listen to you. No matter how
interesting your information, or how pleasant your call,
bad timing means bad results for you.

It's not your fault. Whenever you call someone at
home, you never know whether she was sleeping or
whether there's a fire raging in the kitchen stove.
Whenever you call someone at work, you never know
whether he's got two hours to get a report in or whether
the big boss is not-so-patiently sitting on his desk.

Ds)
Whenever you place a_ call, always—not
occasionally, not frequently—always ask about your
timing. Make it a habit. Make it a rule. Make it a self-
punishable crime if the first words out of your mouth
don't concern the convenience of your timing:

"Hi, Joe, is this a good time to talk?"
"Hello, Susan. Have you got a minute?"

"Hi, Carl, did I catch you good or did I catch you
bad?"

"Sam, do you have a second for me to tell you about
what happened at the game last Saturday?"

There are many ways to say it, but it all boils down
to "Is this a good time to talk?"

My friend Barry, a broadcaster, accomplishes more in
a day than most people do in a week. He came up with a
clever conversational device that ensures he'll never
shatter anyone's emotional sundial. He calls it "What
Color Is Your Time?" Barry introduces the device by
telling people he's calling he has great respect for their
time. He then asks permission to start his future
conversations with a question that assures he'll never
disturb them at an inopportune moment. Barry says he's
going to ask what color their time is. They should
honestly answer, "red," "yellow," or "green."

Red means "I'm really rushed."

Yellow means "I'm busy but what's on your mind? If
it's quick, we can deal with it."

Green means "Sure, I've got time. Let's talk."

Red, like the stoplight at the corner, means stop.
Yellow means hurry up, time is short or stop and wait

for the next green light. Green means go.

Busy people pick up quickly on his artful device and
enjoy the game. Most especially, they enjoy Barry's
sensitivity and respect for their time. In fact, he says,
most of his callers play the same sensitive game when
they call him. "Hi Barry, what color is your time? Are
you green?"

Salesfolks, Wait for the Green Light

A note here for salespeople. If you ask a prospect if he
or she has time to talk and the answer is "Not really, but
tell me what's on your mind," DON'T! Do not make
your sales pitch while he or she is red. Do not talk when
he or she is yellow. Wait until green, very green. (If you
ever want to see any green coming from your prospect,
that is.)

TECHNIQUE #65
WHAT COLOR IS YOUR TIME?

No matter how urgent you think your call, always
begin by asking the person about timing. Either use
the What Color Is Your Time? device or simply ask,
"Is this a convenient time for you to talk?" When
you ask about timing first, you'll never smash your
footprints right in the middle of your telephone
partner's sands of time. You'll never get a "No!" just
because your timing wasn't right.
66 How to Impress Everyone
with Your Outgoing
Voicemail Message

You can tell a lot about people just from the outgoing
messages they leave on their voice mail. "Hello," his
machine answers. "I'm not in right now. But you
probably don't want to talk to me anyway." Beep.
Would you suspect this fellow has an inferiority
complex?

"Hello," her machine answers. "The sound you hear
is the barking of our killer Doberman pinscher, Wolf.
Please leave a message after the tone." Beep. Would
you suspect this woman is worried about break-ins?
Most of us don't record our personal foibles so
conspicuously for the world to hear. Nevertheless,
people can hear a lot between the lines of what we say
on our voice mail.

Last month I needed a graphic artist to do some work
for one of my extremely conservative clients. I phoned
Mark, an artist whose work I had seen and liked a lot.
His answering machine blasted ear-splitting rock music
through the receiver. Then his voice boomed over the
electric guitar, "Hey there, dude, don't be crude. Jes'
croon me an earful of sweeeeeeet sounds right at that
lone tone. Yeah, yeah, yeah." Beep. I banged the
receiver quickly back into the cradle to shut out horrible
fantasies of how my client would react if he had to call
Mark. His thirty-second talent show might have been an

Ds)
appropriate sample of a rock musician's talent. But a
businessperson should opt for a more sedate outgoing
message. The message you leave on your answering
machine reflects your work. Keep yours friendly,
neutral, and up-to-date.

And here's the secret: to give the impression you are
really on top of your business, change your message
every day. Studies show that callers perceive people to
be brighter and more efficient when they hear an
updated message each time they call. If appropriate, let
callers know where you are and when you intend to be
back. If you have customers who need to be attended to,
this is crucial.

Try something like this on your office phone: "This
is (name). It's Thursday, May 7, and I'll be in a sales
meeting until late this afternoon. Please leave your
message and I'll get back to you as soon as I return."
That way, if you don't call a client back until 4 P.M. he
isn't steaming.

Also, keep it short. Some people change their
message every day, but it's too long. I had a colleague, a
public speaker named Dan, who in his finest mellifluous
voice imposed his thought for the day on all
unsuspecting callers.

Last year I was working on a project with Dan and
had to call him three times in the same day to leave a
progress report. Each time his machine answered:
"Hello, this is Dan, and here's my daily motivator." He
cleared his throat for his big recorded performance and
then continued. "Did someone say something today that
offended you? So what! That's their problem." He
paused dramatically. "Did someone look at you the

@ AQ

wrong way? So what! That's their problem." Again, a
pause for the magnitude of that sentiment to sink in.
"Replace your petty thoughts of anger, exasperation,
and spite with thoughts of strength. Calm down. Rise
above those little insignificant irritations in life. Focus
your thoughts in the direction of fulfillment and
accomplishment. Once again, this is Dan." I'm surprised
he didn't also leave his agent's phone number here.
"Leave your message at the tone. And have a great
peaceful day." Beep.

The first time I listened to Dan's "inspirational"
message, the length mildly irritated me. The second
time, I found myself hyper-ventilating while waiting for
him to get through his unbearably long message. By the
third call, his schmaltzy message seemed interminable. I
was filled with those "petty thoughts of anger,
exasperation, and spite" he warned against because of
his darn message. I found it impossible to "rise above
it" and "focus my thoughts in the direction of
fulfillment and accomplishment." I wanted to punch
him in the nose. Outgoing messages are not the venues
to give inspirational messages or to impress the world
with one's accomplishments.

Another friend of mine, a writer, earned herself a few
little cat stripes with this one on her machine:

"Hello, this is Cheryl Smith. Cheryl is on her
national book tour," (she paused so all callers could be
appropriately impressed) "making appearances in
twelve cities." (Another pause as though awaiting
applause.) "She'll be returning on October 7." (What's
this "she" bit? Cheryl herself is speaking.) "Please leave
your message for her at the tone." Beep.

yy)

a 7.
@ AQ

STO OF Op HO

Ds)

Yes, Cheryl, we know you're an important author. jokes. No inspirational messages. No boasts, bells,
But your third-party reference to self, your narcissistic or whistles. And here's the secret: change it every
tone of voice, and topping it off with twelve cities day. Your message doesn't have to be flawless. A
would make any big cat snicker through his whiskers. little cough or stammer gives a lovely unpretentious

One last codicil: Avoid one particular message many reality to your message.

businesspeople use these days—"I'm either away from
my desk or on the other line." The subtext of this
message is "I'm a slave chained to my desk and it is an
amazing fact that I have escaped for the moment." One
night I was working into the wee hours. At 4 A.M. I
decided to leave a message on a colleague's business
phone so she'd get it as soon as she came in at nine.
"Hello," the message chirped. "This is Felicia. I'm either
away from my desk or on the other line right now, but
leave your message at the tone." Beep. Felicia, of
course you're away from your desk—it's 4 A.M. on
Sunday morning! "On the other line?" At this hour? I
hope not!

You never know how your message is going to affect
someone. Just keep yours neutral, friendly, constantly
changing, short, and understated. No boasts, no bells, no
whistles.

TECHNIQUE #66

CONSTANTLY CHANGING OUTGOING
MESSAGE

If you want to be perceived as conscientious and
reliable, leave a short, professional, and friendly
greeting as your outgoing message. No music. No
67 How to Get Them to Call
You Back

Producers of big Broadway musicals can be brutal
during auditions. An anxious wanna-be star, after
rehearsing his audition song for weeks, steps onstage.
He opens his mouth to sing. After a few notes, the
heartless producer shouts, "Thank you. NEEEXXXT!"
Dreams of stardom dashed in ten seconds!

Businesspeople's professional dreams can also be
dashed in the first ten seconds of their "audition." Their
audition is the message they leave on someone else's
answering machine.

Competent businesspeople wouldn't dream of
sending a messy handwritten business letter to a VIP on
cheap yellow-stained paper and expect a response. They
know the recipient would toss it in the trash.
Nevertheless, some of these same folks will leave a lack
luster message on a VIP's voice mail and expect a
callback. No one ever told them that big winners
scrutinize messages on their voice mail with the same
consideration of a big Broadway producer. If you sound
good, you've got a chance. If you don't, you are fast-
forwarded out of their life.

Salespeople, suitors, candidates, and competitors
who leave crisp, intelligent, upbeat messages on voice
mail get called back. Losers with lackluster tones and
uncrafted messages never hear from Mr. or Ms. Make It
Happen. Make sure your message reflects three Cs:

yy)
Confidence, Clarity, and Credibility. In addition, make
it entice, entertain, or interest the listener. A flat "This is
Joe, call me back" doesn't score with big winners.

Stay Tuned For...

Radio DJs use tricks to keep their listeners tuned in. Top
salespeople have similar little tricks to entice prospects
to call them back. Here's one called a cliff-hanger. To
make sure listeners won't switch stations during the
radio commercial, the broadcaster throws out a mini-
mystery: "And right after the commercial we'll be back
with the winning ticket . . . It could be yours .. . Stay
tuned!" Whenever you leave a voice mail message for
anyone, try to include a cliff-hanger: "Hi, Harry, this is
Andrew. I have the answer to that question you asked
me last week." Or "Hi Diane, this is Betsy. I have some
big news about that project we were discussing." Now
Harry and Diane have a reason to call Andrew and
Betsy back.

Pitch personality into your message, too. Picture the
people listening to it. Say something to pique their
curiosity or make them smile. The message you leave is
your ten-second audition. Make it good.

TECHNIQUE #67
YOUR TEN-SECOND AUDITION

While dialing, clear your throat. If an answering
machine picks up, pretend the beep is a big
Broadway producer saying "Nexxxt." Now you're

@ AQ

on. This is Your Ten-Second Audition to prove you
are worthy of a quick callback.

Incidentally, if someone's voice mail unexpectedly
comes on and you are unprepared, quickly hang up
(before the beep so they don't get a hang-up message.)
Take a moment to craft your entertaining, enticing, or
interesting message. Rehearse it once with confidence,
clarity, and charisma. Then redial to leave your great
hot message.

A funny thing happens. If your party answers this
time, you'll be disappointed.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
68 How to Make the
Gatekeeper Think You're
Buddy-Buddy with the
VIP

The inspiration for this next telephone technique comes
from personal experiences with mid-Manhattan toilets
(a less-than-refined origin, to be sure). New York City,
in spite of all its reputed sophistication, lags some of the
shabbiest European cities in one respect. Manhattan has
few public toilets. And none of those European-style,
charming, and at times very much appreciated,
freestanding structures on street corners.

In the days when I made sales calls around the busy
city of New York, this presented a problem. Several
times a day. I often found myself at the mercy of coffee-
shop cashiers who jealously guarded their restroom
facilities. Some shops even put menacingly scribbled
signs in the window, "Bathrooms are for customers
only."

I often found that if I played it straight—going up to
the cashier and asking if I could use the amenities—I'd
get shot down. So I used the following technique.
Without casting a glance at the cashier, I'd strut
confidently into the coffee shop. I'd march right past the
bathroom bouncer and keep my gaze fixed on one of the
booths. She'd assume I was coming for lunch or had
simply returned to collect my forgotten gloves. Once

Ds)
past the gatekeeper of the loo, I'd wait for her to be busy
ringing up the next check. Then, like greased lightning,
I'd sprint into the john.

I dubbed this deception "The Ho-Hum Caper" after
my feigned attitude of "Ho hum, business as usual. I
come here every day with nothing on my mind but
lunch."

Let us now translate that sneaky subterfuge into a
seldom-fail phone technique. You can use the maneuver
to sneak around secretaries and dodge their heartless
screening. Instead of playing it straight and asking for
your party by name, just say "Is he in?" or "Is she in?"
Using the pronoun is verbally sprinting past the
secretary with a business as usual, "Ho hum, I call every
day" attitude.

TECHNIQUE #68
THE HO-HUM CAPER

Instead of using your party's name, casually let the
pronoun he or she roll off your tongue. Forget "Uh,
may I speak to Ms. Bigshot please?" Just announce,
"Hi, Bob Smith here, is she in?" Tossing the familiar
she off your tongue signals to the secretary that you
and her boss are old buddies.

@ AQ

69 How to Make Them Say
You Have Super
Sensitivity

Whenever you're on the phone with someone, you hear
a lot more than their voices. In the background you
might hear dogs barking, babies crying, or a crackling
sound. For all you know, the dog has his tail caught in
the refrigerator, the baby has to be fed, or the house is
on fire. When you acknowledge the sound by asking if
they have to take care of it, you warm the hearts of your
listeners.

When you are talking to someone at work, you often
hear another phone ringing. Say immediately, "I hear
your other line. Do you have to answer it?" Even if not,
he or she will appreciate the gesture. If he does have to
catch the other call, you can be sure he heard nothing
you said after the first ring. He's only thinking "How
can I interrupt this babbling person without being rude
so I can answer my other phone?" In fact with every
brr-ing, irritation sets in that you are holding him
hostage from doing what he has to do.

Here is the technique guaranteed to save you from
being in that uncomfortable position.

The subtext, of course, is that you are sensitive to
what's going on in your caller's world. If you're talking
to someone far away or in another country, another way
to show you're tops in the communications department

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
is to translate time references into their time zone.
When you leave a message, say "I can be reached
between three and five your time."

TECHNIQUE #69
"I HEAR YOUR OTHER LINE"

When you hear a phone in the background, stop
speaking—in midsentence, if necessary—and say "I
hear your other line," (or your dog barking, your
baby crying, your spouse calling you). Ask whether
she has to attend to it. Whether she does or not,
she'll know you're a top communicator for asking.

And don't forget foreign holidays. Last July 1, I was
on the phone with a client from Australia. I was
impressed when he wished me "Happy Independence
Day weekend." So impressed, in fact, I ran out to find a
chart of international holidays. I made a note in my
calendar next January 26 to wish my Aussie friend
"Happy Australia Day."

If you do business with people around the world, be
sure to extend good wishes to them for their holidays.
Forget about your own if they're not shared. I'm still
mortified about the time last November when I was on a
conference call with a Canadian client and seven of his
salespeople. I wished them all "Happy Thanksgiving."

@ AQ

70 How to "Listen Between
the Lines" on the Phone

The first time I saw The Wizard of Oz, the story
bewitched me. The second time I saw The Wizard of Oz,
the special effects amazed me. The third time I saw The
Wizard of Oz, the photography dazzled me. Have you
ever seen a movie twice, three times? You notice
subtleties and hear sounds you completely missed the
first time around.

It's the same on the phone. Hearing it is much better
the second time around. Because your business
conversations are more consequential than movies, you
should listen to them two, maybe three times. Often we
have no clear idea of what really happened in our phone
conversation until we hear it again. You'll find shadings
more significant than the color of Toto's collar—and
more scarecrows than you imagined who "haven't got a
brain!"

How do you listen to your important business
conversations again? Simply legally and ethically tape-
record them. I call the technique of recording and
analyzing your business conversations for subtleties
"Instant Replay."

Having a tape recorder on her phone could have
made a dramatic difference in the career of my friend
Laura. Laura, a nutritionist, had developed an excellent
health drink. It deserved to be marketed nationally.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
I was in Laura's office one day discussing her plans
and I said, "Laura, I've got just the contact for you.
Several months earlier, I had met Fred, a man who
owned a chain of supermarkets. Fred owed me a favor
because, at his request, I'd given a pro bono talk for a
social club he belonged to. Fred was a big banana in the
supermarket world, and with one "yes" he could put my
friend's health drink in his stores. That would launch
Laura nationally.

I placed the call and, lo and behold, he was in. And,
an even bigger lo and behold, Fred sounded interested
in Laura's beverage.

"Put her on," Fred said.

I proudly handed Laura the phone and _ their
conversation started out fine. "Oh sure, I'll send you a
sample," Laura said. "What's the address?" Then I heard
Laura say, "Uh, wait a minute, let me get something to
write with." (I rapidly rolled a pen and pushed a pad in
front of her nose.) "Uh, what's that again? Did you say
4201 or 4102? [I moan inaudibly.] And how do you
spell the name of the street? [My moan becomes
audible.] Whoops, this pen just ran out of ink. Leil, do
you see another pen on my desk? [I did, and this time I
felt like throwing it at her.] Sorry, what's that again?"

Yikes, now I wanted to grab the phone out of Laura's
hands. She shouldn't be bothering a busy big banana for
details like repeating addresses. She could have called
his secretary back later for clarification. But even that
would have been unnecessary if she were recording the
conversation with the Instant Replay technique. She
could have merely mentioned that she was flipping on

@ AQ

the recorder (most heavy hitters are comfortable with
that concept) and she would have had it on tape.

Fred was nice to Laura that day. But my friend never
heard back from him. And to this day, she wonders why.
She'll never know the confused phone exchange nixed
the deal.

Was Fred being unfair just because Laura was a little
slow on the phone? Absolutely not. Fred figures, "If this
woman is as insensitive about my time at the beginning
of a possible business relationship, what's she going to
be like down the pike?" Wise choice, Fred. I still like
Laura. She's still my friend. But will I introduce her to
any other big winners who might help her? I can't take
the chance.

How to Set Up Your Instant Replay

Instant Replay is simple and cheap. Go to your local
electronics store and ask for a recorder for your
telephone. Slap it on your phone receiver, and plug the
other end into a cassette recorder. Then turn the recorder
on during your next important conversation. The device
could earn you hundreds of dollars on your first call. In
some states the law requires you inform the other party
you are recording them. Make sure to check with the
authorities about the legality in the state where you live.
If it's one-party consent, don't worry. You're the one
party. Obviously you must never ever use the tape for
any other purpose than for your own second listening.
Not only would that be unlawful, but it would be
unconscionable. For extra security, don't leave people's
taped conversations lying around. Keep the same tape in

yy)

a 7.
your cassette machine and use it over and over to record
important details.

With Instant Replay, you can catch balls your
conversation partner throws out on the first bounce.
You're on the phone with your boss. He rambles off four
or five names in a law firm you're supposed to write to,
then the address, then the nine-digit zip code. Realizing
he's pitched you some pretty fast balls, he asks, "Shall I
repeat that for you?" "No thanks, I got it," you proudly
say, silently tapping your little tape recorder. Boss is
impressed.

Yet another benefit of Instant Replay—it helps hide
your ignorance. Recently I was on the phone with a
cameraman negotiating a price on a videotape to use as
a speaker's demo. Luckily I was recording the
conversation because his flurry of Hi-8, VHS, Super
VHS, Beta SP, and three-quarter-inch U-matic had me
wanting to crawl into a rodent hole in the wall. But I
listened to the tape of our conversation afterward. I
wrote down all the words I didn't understand and then
asked a video friend what they meant. Now I was able
to call the cameraman back and say, "I'd like a two-
camera shoot on Beta SP. And can you give me a VHS
dub so I can do some off-line editing?" Don't you think
I got a much better price than if I'd asked, "Duh, what's
a Beta SP?"

TECHNIQUE #70
INSTANT REPLAY

@ AQ

Record all your business conversations and listen to
them again. The second or third time, you pick up on
significant subtleties you missed the first time. It's
like football fans who often don't know if there was
a fumble until they see it all over again in Instant
Replay.

Forget What They Said, Hear What
They Meant

Instant Replay also makes you sensitive to levels of
communication far deeper than just your callers' words.
You tune in to their real enthusiasm or hesitation about
an idea.

When we want something, our minds play funny
tricks on us. If we desperately crave "yes" from
someone, we hear "yes." But "yes" isn't always what it
seems. A client's forceful "YES" and her hesitant "yeee-
sss" are different as heaven and hell. Last month I asked
a woman who'd booked me for a speech if her office
could reproduce my ten-page handout. She gave me the
answer I wanted, which was "yes." Later, however, I
relistened to our conversation on tape. Her answer about
the handouts had been a very hesitant, "Hmm, well,
yes." I immediately called her back and said, "By the
way, don't worry about those handouts."

"Oh, I'm so glad!" she purred. "Because we really
don't have the budget for things like that." I gained
much more in my client's goodwill than the value of
reproducing a few sheets of paper.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
@ AQ
ee

Ds)

Let us now return to your live, in-person show. We're

going to talk not only about how to be a hit at a party, PART EIGHT

but how to smoothly hit on all the folks you want—just

like a politician. HOW TO WORK A PARTY LIKE
A POLITICIAN WORKS A
ROOM
The Politician's Six-Point Party
Checklist

When invited to a party, most of us waft into a fluffy
thought process. Our random reverie goes something
like this: "Hmm, this could be fun. . . . Wonder if they're
going to serve food. . . . Hope it's good. . . . Might be
some interesting people there. . .. Wonder if my friend
so 'n' so is coming. . .. Golly, what should I wear?"

That's not the way a politician thinks about a party,
however. While politicians, heavy-duty networkers,
serious socializers, and big winners in the business
world are staring at the invitation, they instinctively surf
to a different channel. Before they RSVP with "yes" or
"no," their brains craft journalistic campaign questions.
It's the Six-Point Party Checklist. Who? When? What?
Why? Where? And How?

Let's take them one by one.

Who Is Going to Be at the
Party?
More specifically, who will be there that I should meet?
Serious networkers calculate "Who must I meet for
business? Who should I meet for political or social
reasons?" And, if single and searching, "Who do I want
to meet for possible love?"

If they don't know who is going to be in attendance,
they ask. Politicians unabashedly telephone the host or
hostess of the party and ask, "Who's coming?" As the
party giver chats casually about the guest list,
politicians scribble the names of the people who interest
them, then resolve to meet each.

When Should I Arrive?

Politicians do not leave arrival time to whenever they
finish getting dressed. They don't ask themselves,
"Hmm, should I be fashionably late?" They carefully
calculate their estimated time of arrival and estimated
time of departure.

If the party is bulging with contacts, biggies get there
early to start hitting their marks as each arrives. VIPs
frequently come early to get their business done before
party regulars who "hate to be the first one there" start
arriving. They are never embarrassed to arrive early.
After all, the only people who see them are other early
arrivals who are often heavy hitters like themselves.

Nor will you find politicians prowling around, the
last to slink out the door. Once they've accomplished
what they set out to do, they're on their way to the next
opportunity. If their agenda is more social, they try to
leave their departure time open and their aprés-party

@ AQ

schedule free. That way, if they make an important new
contact, they can stay around and talk with him. Or
drive her home. Or go somewhere else for coffee.

What Should I Take with Me?

A politician's checklist is not the usual, "Let's see, my
comb, cologne, and breath mints." They pack more
functional networking tools in their pockets or purses.

If corporate cats will be prowling the party, they pack
a pocketful of business cards. If it's a gala where people
are gadding about on the social ladder and they want to
exude old-world elegance, they grab a handful of social
cards containing only their name and possibly an
address and phone number. (Some feel giving out a
business card in a purely social setting can be gauche.)
The most vital tool in their party pack is a small pad and
pen to keep track of important contacts.

Why Is the Party Being Given?

The politician's perpetual philosophy of "penetrate the
ostensible" enters here. (That's just a fancy way of
saying "look under the rug.") They ask themselves,
"What is the ostensible reason for the party?" A big
industrialist is giving his daughter a graduation party? A
newly divorced executive is throwing himself a birthday
bash? A floundering business is celebrating its tenth
year?

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
"Nice," politicians say to themselves, "that's the
ostensible. But what's the real reason for the party?"
Maybe the industrialist wants to get his daughter a good
job so he's invited dozens of potential employers. The
birthday boy is single again so the guest list is heavy
with attractive and accomplished females. The business
desperately needs good PR if it's going to stay around
another ten years. So they've invited the press and
community makers and shakers.

Politicians have expert under-rug vision to spot the
host's real agenda. They will, of course, never discuss it
at the party. However, the insight elevates them to a
shared state of higher consciousness with other heavy
hitters at the bash.

Their knowledge also makes them valuable agents
for the party giver. A savvy politician introduces the
job-seeking daughter to some executives at the party or
tells the most alluring women at the bash what a great
guy birthday boy is. When chatting with reporters, he
talks up the host's business that needs good PR. When
people support the real why of the party, they become
popular and sought-after guests for future events.

Where Is the Collective Mind?

Often people from one profession or one interest group
will comprise most of the guest list. A politician never
accepts any invitation without asking herself, "What
kind of people will be at this party, and what will they
be thinking about?" Perhaps there will be a drove of
doctors. So she clicks on the latest medical headlines

@ AQ

and rehearses a little doc-talk. If the guests are a nest of
new-age voters, the politician gets up to speed on
telepathic healing, Tantric toning, and trance dancing.
Politicians can't afford to not be in the know.

How Am I Going to Follow Up
on the Party?

Now, the big finale. I call it "Contact Cement." It's
cementing the contacts the politician has made. After
meeting a good contact and exchanging cards,
practically everyone says, "It's been great talking to
you. We'll stay in touch."

This good intention seldom happens without
herculean effort. Politicians, however, make a science
out of keeping up the contact. After the party, they sit at
their desks and, like a game of solitaire, lay out the
business cards of the people they've met. Using "The
Business Card Dossier" technique described later in this
section, they decide how, when, and if to deal with
each. Does this person require a phone call? Should that
one receive a handwritten note? Shall I E-mail or call
the other one?

Use the Six-Point Party Checklist—the Who? When?
Why? Where? What? and How? of a party—as your
general game plan. Now let's get down to specifics.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
71 How to Avoid the Most
Common Party Blooper

The average party goer, let's say Charlie, arrives at the
bash. He makes a beeline for the refreshment table for
munchies and a beverage. He then finds a few buddies
and starts chatting away with them.

Chewing the nibbles on his plate and the fat with his
friends, he occasionally looks around the room to see
who might be new and fun to talk to. He's hoping
several attractive and interesting people at the party will
spot him and come over to talk.

What's wrong with Charlie's approach? Everything,
if Charlie wants to make the party productive. Let's start
with the average party goer's first mistake—getting
some refreshments and a drink right off the bat.

People mingling at a party make judgments, often
subconscious, about whom they are going to approach.
Have you ever lived on a farm? Or had a dog or a cat?
Then you know you never disturb animals when they
are eating. Likewise, when a human animal is eating,
other human animals do not feel comfortable
advancing. If party goers' eyes scan the crowd and see
you with the feed bag on, they pass right over you.
Subconsciously they're saying to themselves, "Let the
hungry hound chow down and maybe we'll talk later."
Later never comes because they wind up making friends
with someone else whose mouth wasn't full.

Ds)
Politicians always eat before they come to the party.
They know they'd need a circus juggler's talent to shake
hands, exchange business cards, hold a drink, and stuff
crackers and cheese into their mouths—all with just two
hands.

TECHNIQUE #71
MUNCHING OR MINGLING

Politicians want to be eyeball to eyeball and belly to
belly with their constituents. Like any big winner
well versed in the science of proxemics and spatial
relationships, they know any object except their belt
buckle has the effect of a brick wall between two
people. Therefore they never hold food or drink at a
party.

Come to munch or come to mingle. But do not
expect to do both. Like a good politician, chow
down before you come.

@ AQ

72 How to Make = an
Unforgettable Entrance

Loretta Young makes television history when she
appears at the head of her immense staircase and
surveys the set. Then she swoops down to start the
show.

The Pope steps out onto his balcony overlooking St.
Peter's Square in Rome and surveys the crowd. Then he
begins the benediction.

Bette Davis stops in the doorway and looks around.
Then she mutters, "What a dump!"

And every late-night TV comic since "Heeeere's
Johnny!" steps center stage and scrutinizes the
applauding audience. Then he reveals the reason for the
smirk on his face.

What do all these great entrances have in common?
Each pauses momentarily and looks around before
swooping into decisive action.

Movie directors love shots of THE DOORWAY
where the camera pans, the music swells, and all eyes
gravitate to the honcho or honchoette standing under the
frame. Does the star skulk into the room like a
frightened little kitten in a new owner's home? Or, like
many of us do at a party, frantically gravitate to the first
familiar face so people won't think he or she's
unconnected? No, the star stops. Then, framed by the
doorway, his or her notable presence is felt by all.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
People who have mastered this trick have what
envious theatrical wanna-bes call "stage presence."
Stage groupies think some lucky stars are born with it.
Think again, thespians. It's cultivated. Politicians don't
just slink unnoticed into a roomful of people.

Politicians make The Entrance.

With one simple technique, you too can make great
entrances. I call it "Rubberneck the Room." Before
entering, stop dramatically in the doorway and survey
the scene s-l-o-w-l-y with your eyes. It is significant
that, while you're standing in the doorway, you're not
thinking, "Look at me." The reason you're
Rubbernecking the Room is not to show off. It is so you
can diagnose the situation you're walking into. Take
note of the lighting, the bar, and most important, the
faces. Listen to the music, the buzz of the crowd, the
clinking of glasses. See who is talking to whom. While
rubbernecking, you'll also be using "Be the Chooser,
Not the Choosee," the next technique, which helps you
select your first, second, and maybe third target. Now,
like the big cat who rules the jungle, leap in to make
your first move toward wiping up the room.

TECHNIQUE #72
RUBBERNECK THE ROOM

When you arrive at the gathering, stop dramatically
in the doorway. Then s-l-o-w-l-y survey the
situation. Let your eyes travel back and forth like a

SWAT team ready in a heartbeat to wipe out
anything that moves.

In tandem with Rubberneck the Room, try using the
following technique.
73 How to Meet the People
YOU Want to Meet

Politicians don't wait for others to approach them. If the
party host or their campaign manager has not supplied a
"must meet" list, they choose their targets while
Rubbernecking the Room. As their keen eyes scan the
crowd, they're asking themselves "Who would I most
enjoy talking to? Who looks like they could be most
beneficial to my life? Who could I learn most from in
this gang?"

How do they choose? They look at everyone the
same way my friend, Bob, the caricature artist, looks at
people. You can tell a whole lot more than you realize if
you keep your gaze fixed on someone. Every twinkle in
someone's eye and every line surrounding it tells a story
—the story of the life he or she leads. Who was it who
said, "At age thirty, everyone has the face he deserves"?
Yet few of us consciously look into strangers' eyes.
How foolish that, at a party or convention for making
contacts, most people are embarrassed to make eye
contact with people we don't know.

In my networking seminar, I prime participants to
make intense visual contact by asking them to form a
big circle, walk around the room, and silently stare at
each other. "Gaze into each other's eyes," I tell them.
"Examine each other's movements."

As they are walking, I say, "The most important
business contact, the dearest friend, or the love of your

yy)
life is probably not in this room. Nevertheless,
sometime soon, you will be in a room where you will
spot someone you sense could change your life. I want
you to be prepared. I want you to have the courage to
make the approach and not wait in vain for that special
someone to approach you." While strolling and staring,
I ask them to silently choose the four people they most
want to talk to during the break.

"Only the Beautiful People Will Be
Chosen"

When given this unfamiliar and uncomfortable
assignment, the participants assume everyone will make
a beeline for the most attractive people. It never
happens. Something mystical occurs when people take
the time to really look at each other. Everyone discovers
a distinctive beauty in one or two other people that is
very personal, very special, and speaks uniquely to the
seeker.

The dearest friend in my life was a homely little
fellow named Chip. He was only 5 feet 2 inches tall.
Chip had a huge nose and funny little eyes peeping out
through thick glasses. At a party, without using this
technique, I probably would never have noticed Chip.
However, my concentration was on him the day we met
because he was giving a speech. When I gazed intently
into his eyes and watched his lips moving, I saw such
subjective beauty coming from his face. He became my
best friend for twelve years until a tragic disease took
his life. Nevertheless, Chip remained beautiful to me
until the end because, no matter how twisted his body
became with illness, the beauty shone through his spirit.

@ AQ

As the seminar participants explore each other's faces
and movements, they discover the subjective beauty in
their faces, in their spirits. No one can explain why one
person chooses another as one of his or her special four.
Yet practically everyone returns from the break having
made a new good friend. Never is anyone left unchosen.

When you seek people's special qualities by
exploring their faces, you will find them. If you want to
walk out of any gathering with your life enhanced,
spend time with people you choose, not just those who
choose you. Be choosey in who you pick. But don't wait
to be the choosee.

TECHNIQUE #73
BE THE CHOOSER, NOT THE CHOOSEE

The lifelong friend, the love of your life, or the
business contact who will transform your future may
not be at the party. However, someday, somewhere,
he or she will be. Make every party a rehearsal for
the big event.

Do not stand around waiting for the moment
when that special person approaches you. You make
it happen by exploring every face in the room. No
more "ships passing in the night." Capture whatever
or whomever you want in your life.

"Sure, in a Seminar, It's Easy, but What
About Real Life?"

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Sometimes, after the break, a participant will say, "It
was simple to go up to people I wanted to talk to this
time because you gave it as an assignment. But what
about at a real party?" Recently, one of my participants
named Todd asked me this question in front of the
group.

I asked, "Todd, how did you make the approach this
time?"

"Well, I just went up and said, 'Hi, I'm Todd. I
wanted to talk to you."

"Well?" I asked.

It dawned on him that he could use this opening
phrase to meet anyone at any party. To smooth a
potentially awkward moment, you quickly follow up
with an innocuous question like "How do you know the
hostess?" or "Do you live in the area?" Now, you're off
and running just as though the host had introduced you.

Of course, other choosey people will be prowling
around the party. Some of them, after scrutinizing you,
will decide you are one of the special people they
choose to talk to. The following is a subliminal
maneuver to make it easy for them come over to
confirm they made a wise choice.

@ AQ

74 How to Subliminally Lure
People to You at a
Gathering

Have you ever noticed how comfortable you feel
sauntering into certain rooms? The chairs are arranged
in a way that welcomes you as if saying, "Come right
on in and sit on me." Conversely, you enter other rooms
where you must navigate a circuitous route around
tables and dressers before you finally find a free chair.

Likewise, some people arrange their body furniture,
their arms and legs, to say, "Hey, come right on over
and talk to me." Yet other people's body furniture
shouts, "Keep out! Approach at your own risk." Shy
people inadvertently say "stay away" when they fold
their arms. They give off insecure signals by clutching a
purse, clasping a drink, or smoking a cigarette.

Controlled studies show that party goers are more
comfortable approaching people who stand with an
open body, arms uncrossed and hanging at their sides,
legs slightly separated, a slight smile on their faces. Any
object between you and the crowd is a subliminal cutoff
—even your purse. More people approach a woman
who sports a shoulder bag than one squeezing a
handbag. The shoulder bag hangs behind her back, thus
leaving the path to talk to her open.

Give Them the OI' Wrist Flash

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Now, here's the piéce de résistance. Next to your face,
your wrists and palms are one of the most expressive
parts of your body. Palms up speak volumes of good
sentiments.

The Pope's wrists and palms are up when he beckons
"Come unto me my brethren." The burglar's wrists and
palms are up when he says, "I give up, don't shoot." The
innocent man's wrists and palms are up when he's
saying, "I don't know who took the money." Vulnerable,
open palms signify "I have nothing to hide."

They also signify acceptance. When you are listening
to a business colleague to whom you want to signal
acceptance, make sure your wrists and palms are up.
Even if you're resting your head on your chin, turn your
wrists forward. Whenever you are chatting with anyone,
give yourself a constant hand check. Make sure you
don't point your knuckles directly toward anyone. Let
them have the pleasure of seeing the soft, tender "come
hither" skin of your wrists and palms, not the wrinkled
"go away" hide on your knuckles.

Romance on your mind? Ladies, let your hands do
some talking for you. Women instinctively turn their
wrists and palms upward when a man excites them. (In
fact, the ol' wrist flash while talking with males
subconsciously gives them a sexy jolt.)

Pave a Clear Path for People Who Find
You Special

Frightened little jungle cats crouch behind rocks and
logs so no bigger animals will spot them. In the social

jungle, shy people do the same. They instinctively seek
out comers and sit in seats where they won't be seen.

TECHNIQUE #74
COME-HITHER HANDS

Be a human magnet, not a human repellent. When
standing at a gathering, arrange your body in an
open position—especially your arms and hands.
People instinctively gravitate toward open palms and
wrists seductively arranged in the "come hither"
position. They shy away from knuckles in the "get
lost or I'll punch you" position. Use your wrists and
palms to say "I have nothing to hide," "I accept you
and what you're saying," or "I find you sexy."

Whereas lynxes and lions stroll confidently to the
center of the jungle clearing, human big cats in the
social jungle also stand confidently in a clearing so
others can see them. Like a politician, position yourself
near a doorway since everyone must pass your way at
some point in the evening.

Now we come to a technique all politicians use. In
fact, some political pundits have credited the election of
both John Kennedy and Bill Clinton to their mastery of
the technique I call "Tracking."
75 How to Make 'Em Feel
Like a Movie Star

In the 1940s, movies were different. Before
experimental films, cinema verité, and nouvelle vague,
they had stories. Americans hopped in their Buicks—a
foxtail tied to the radio antenna and baby boots
suspended from the rearview mirror—drove to the
movie house, and watched a story unfold before them.

Almost invariably, the hero and heroine on the silver
screen would meet, fall in love, overcome seemingly
impossible obstacles, get married, and (presumably)
live happily after. Oh, the stories varied slightly. But
there was always a leading man and maybe a leading
woman. Then there was the rest of the world. The
supporting characters could live or die without much
brouhaha. But every minor event in the star's life was
significant.

Well, movies may have changed. Human nature
hasn't. Everyone feels like the star of a 1940s movie.
Every trivial event in their lives is momentous. "There's
ME. Then there's the rest of the world."

What someone had for breakfast, what shoes he
chose to wear, and whether he took time to floss his
teeth can be more important to that particular someone
than the fall of faraway nations or the rise of global
temperatures.

Husbands and wives sometimes share their spouse's
minutiae:

Ds)
"What did you have for breakfast, Honey?"
"You didn't wear those shoes, did you?"
"Did you remember to floss?"

To create an interesting intimacy, big winners make a
point to remember minute details of important contacts'
lives. They obviously don't feign interest in what they
had for breakfast or whether they flossed or forgot. But
to make someone feel like a big star, they remember
details their contact does happen to share.

Take their lead. If a prospect mentions he had Rice
Krispies for breakfast, allude to it later. If, in chatting,
your boss tells you she wore uncomfortable shoes to
work one day, find a way to refer to it on another. If
your client mentions he's a resolute flosser, compliment
him at a later date on his discipline. It hints he or she is
a memorable star in the galaxy of people you've met.
It's called "Tracking" their lives. When you track their
minutiae, you make them feel like 1940s movie stars
and that minor events in their lives are major concerns
in yours.

Don't Leave It to Chance

Politicians make a science out of Tracking. They keep a
little black box either on their desk, in their computer,
or in their brain of the last concern, enthusiasm, or
event discussed with everyone in their life. They keep
track of where the people were, what they said, and
what they were doing since the last conversation. Then
the first words of the next phone call or meeting with
that person relates to that information:

"Hello, Joe. How was your trip to Jamaica?"

"Hey Sam, did your kid make the baseball team?"

"Hi, Sally. Have you heard back from your client
yet?"

"Nice to hear from you, Bob. It means you survived
that Szechuan restaurant you were going to last time we
spoke."

When you invoke the last major or minor event in
anyone's life, it confirms what they've known all along.
They're the most important person in the world.

One of the most powerful forms of tracking is
remembering anniversaries of people's personal
achievements. Did your boss get promoted to her
present position one year ago today? Did your client go
public? How much more memorable than a birthday
card to send a one-year congratulations note.

Remembering people's private passions is another.
Several years ago, I wrote regularly for a magazine. My
then-editor, Carrie, was obsessed with her new kitten
named Cookie. Recently I ran into Carrie at a writer's
conference. In early conversation I said to her, "I guess
Cookie's a full-grown cat by now. How is she?"

Carrie's astonished smile was my reward.

"Leil," she squealed, "I can't believe you remember
Cookie. Yes, she's fine now and .. ." Carrie went on for
another ten minutes about Cookie, the now full-grown
cat.

TECHNIQUE #75
TRACKING

Like an air-traffic controller, track the tiniest details
of your conversation partners’ lives. Refer to them in
your conversation like a major news story. It creates
a powerful sense of intimacy.

When you invoke the last major or minor event in
anyone's life, it confirms the deep conviction that he
or she is an old-style hero around whom the world
revolves. And people love you for recognizing their
stardom.

A week later I got a call from Carrie asking me if I'd
do a big story for her magazine. Did she think of me
because I used the Tracking technique and remembered
Cookie? Nobody can say, but I have my suspicions. I've
seen the Tracking technique work on too many people
to assume the rewards are coincidental.

How do politicians remember so many facts to track
about so many people? They use the following
technique.

iy

@ AQ

76 How to Amaze Them with
What You Remember
About Them

Several years ago, I attended a political fund-raising
event in a Midwestern state. One guest intrigued me.
Sometimes I'd see him in animated conversation with
several people. Other times, he'd be standing alone
scribbling something on a card in his hand. Then the
next time I'd look up, he'd be chatting it up with
someone else. The next minute, he'd be scribbling in his
hand again. He repeated this pattern for over an hour. I
became as curious as a nosy neighbor. Who was this
fellow?

At one point during the evening, I was standing alone
by the refreshment table. He came up to me with a big
smile, a warm handshake, and introduced himself. "Hi,
I'm Joe Smith." He asked me what I was drinking. I told
him white wine and we started discussing preferences. I
happened to mention my favorite white was Sancerre.
While we talked, I had to bite my tongue to resist
asking him what he'd been up to with the feverish note
taking.

A few minutes later, I spotted a friend across the
room and excused myself. He asked for my card and, as
I walked away, I peeked over my shoulder. I knew it!
There he was, scribbling on my card. That was my
opening. I turned back and, trying to pass my inquiry

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
off as a joke, said, "Hey, I didn't give you my
measurements. What's that you're writing?"

He gave a hearty laugh at my tasteless joke and said,
"You caught me!" He turned over my card and I saw
one word written on it: Sancerre. Then, to assuage my
paranoia, he emptied his pocketful of people's business
cards to show me scribbles on the back of each. I
assumed it was just Joe's little system to help him
remember people. It wasn't until months later that I saw
the method to his madness.

One moring I went to my mailbox and found a
personal postcard from Joe. He told me he was running
for state senator. Then at the bottom of the card, he'd
written, "Had any good Sancerre lately?" That won my
heart. Had I lived in his state, a little touch like that
might have swayed my vote to him.

TECHNIQUE #76
THE BUSINESS CARD DOSSIER

Right after you've talked to someone at a party, take
out your pen. On the back of his or her business card
write notes to remind you of the conversation: his
favorite restaurant, sport, movie, or drink; whom she
admires, where she grew up, a high school honor; or
maybe a joke he told.

In your next communication, toss off a reference
to the favorite restaurant, sport, movie, drink,

@ AQ

hometown, high school honor. Or reprieve the laugh
over the great joke.

They may not jump up and down asking, "How did
you remember that?" Nevertheless, they will remember
you. No matter how important the VIP, he or she senses
a special kinship with the person who refers to other
than their usual well-known accomplishments.

Politicians are constantly selling themselves. (If
you've ever wondered why America is called "The Land
of Promise," just keep your ears open in election year.)
But, of course, to know what to promise people,
politicians use the next super sales technique called
"Eyeball Selling."

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
77 How to Make the Sale
with Your Eyeballs

The percentage of sales that Jimmi, a good friend of
mine, makes is not to be believed. Even his sales
manager doesn't know how he does it. But I do.
Because he told me.

Jimmi says the fancy sales techniques he's learned
over the years (Benefits Selling, Partnering, Selling to
Personality Types, Value-Added Concept, Rejection
Proofing, Spin Selling) all pale next to what he calls
"Eyeball Selling."

Eyeball Selling is not memorizing two dozen closing
techniques. Nor is it verbally sparring with a customer
to overcome objections. Jimmi says it's quite simply
keeping his eyes open, watching his customer's
reactions, and adjusting his sales pitch according to how
his customer's body moves.

While Jimmi is giving his sales pitch, he's
concentrating more on how his customer fidgets,
twitches, and squirms than on what he's saying. He's
scrutinizing his customer's involuntary head
movements. He's studying her hand gestures, her body
rotation, her facial expressions—even her eye
fluctuations. Jimmi says when his customer is not
saying a word, even if she's trying to give you a poker
face, she cannot not communicate. She may not say in
words how receptive she is to your pitch, but she's
clearly telling you nonetheless. Jimmi says knowing

Ds)
what turns a prospect on, what turns her off, and what
leaves her neutral from moment to moment can make or
break the sale.

How Jimmi Finds Out Where the Buck
Stops

The product Jimmi sells is expensive lighting
equipment. Often he must make sales presentations to
groups of ten, twenty, or more people. He says, "The
first challenge in Eyeball Selling is discovering who the
real decision maker is."

Jimmi meets his challenge in an unorthodox (not
necessarily recommended) way. Right after "Good
afternoon, gentlemen and ladies," he says something
slightly confusing. Why? Because the surprised group
doesn't know how to react. So their heads all twirl like
weather vanes on a windy day to look at—guess who?
—the honcho, the heavyweight, the head man or
woman. Now Jimmi's got his decision maker so he can
continue Eyeball Selling to that person.

What to Do When You Get Your Cue

Some signals are obvious," Jimmi says. "People shrug
their shoulders for indifference, tap their fingers for
impatience, or loosen their collar when they feel
uncomfortable. But there are hundreds of other
unconscious gestures I keep my antennae tuned for.

"For example, I watch the exact angle of my
prospect's head position. If it's fully facing me,
especially if it's cocked at a cute little angle, it means

they're interested. In that case, I keep right on talking.
But if their head is slightly turning away, that's a bad
sign. I take it as a cue to change the subject and maybe
talk about a different benefit of my product."

Jimmi not only tailors what he's saying to his
customers' reactions, but he actively takes steps to
change his prospect's body position if he feels it's not
receptive. He says, "The body must be open before the
mind can follow." For example, he continues, "If your
customer has his arms crossed in front of his chest, hand
him something to look at so he has to unfold them to
take it from you." Jimmi always carries a briefcase full
of props to break down the barriers. He has photos of
his wife and kids to hand married prospects, snapshots
of his Skye terrier for customers that have a dog, an
antique watch to show antique lovers, and a pocket-size
computer to show gadget fanatics. Jimmi says, "As long
as I can get them to open their arms to reach for
something, I have a shot at their minds."

Jimmi also paces the timing of his pitch to match his
customers' covert reactions. When his client reaches for
an object, he takes it as a cue to talk slower or just be
quiet. Reaching for a paper clip or fondling a folder on
the desk says, "I'm thinking about it."

Of course, Jimmi is on constant lookout for sales-
ready signals like picking up the contract, fondling the
pen, or turning their palms up. At that point, he cuts
quickly to the close.

Another cue to bring out the contract-signing pen is
when your prospect's head starts bobbing up and down
like a plastic duck. They're silently screaming, "Yes, I'll
buy!" Unskilled salespeople just keep on talking until
they finish the pitch they learned in training. Many keep
talking so long, they unsell themselves. Conversely,
when customers move their heads back and forth, no
matter what they are saying, they mean "No!"

Eyeballing Is Not for Selling Only

Without a word, your friends and loved ones also show
their wishes. When my friend Deborah became engaged
to Tony, it seemed obvious to everyone—except
Deborah—that it was not a marriage made in heaven. A
few months before their wedding I said, "Deb, are you
really sure Tony's the one for you?"

"Oh yes," she said, her head moving right and left,
back and forth, "I love him very much." That marriage
never took place. Her body recognized what her mind
hadn't yet realized.

Like a politician, think of your social conversations
as sales pitches. Even if you have no product, you want
them to buy your ideas. If your listener turns away
while you're talking, don't concentrate on how rude the
person is. Like a sales pro, ask yourself, "How can I
change the subject to turn this person on?" If their
whole body starts to turn away, use the time-honored
personal question ploy. Ask about their favorite topic.
"George, how big did you say that bass you caught last
week was?" Or use his name and ask a personal
question. That's always a grabber. "Archibald, what did
you say the name of your high school football team
was?"

We've talked about only a few responses. Hints for
reading someone's body language could fill a book. In

@ AQ

fact, they have—many of them. I suggest a few of my
favorites in the references.2/2° Read up on body
language and tune in to its visual channel whenever
you're trying to sell to people, get their vote, or
convince them you're the best candidate for the job or
the role of life partner.

TECHNIQUE #77
EYEBALL SELLING

The human body is a twenty-four-hour broadcasting
station that transmits "You thrill me." "You bore
me." "I love that aspect of your product." "That one
puts my feet to sleep."

Set the hidden cameras behind your eyeballs to
pick up on all your customers' and friends' signals.
Then plan your pitch and your pace accordingly.

Wouldn't it be super to have Jimmi's success rate with
our listeners accepting whatever we say? We can if we
just keep our eyes open.

A Quick Review

That's all there is to it. You'll remember to eat before
coming to the party (the Munching or Mingling
technique) to leave your hands free for heavy
networking. When you arrive, you'll stop in the
doorway and Rubberneck the Room to get the lay of the
land. While rubbernecking, you'll Be the Chooser, Not
the Choosee and pick your prospects for the evening.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
yy)

@ AQ
en

When standing around, you will be relaxing and
inviting with Come-Hither Hands.

You haven't forgotten, of course, to use the meeting-
people techniques from previous chapters. If you spot
someone you want to talk to, check them out for a
Whatzit you can comment on. Finding none, just ask the
party giver, Whoozat? If the host or hostess is not in
sight, simply stand near your target and resort to the
Eavesdrop In technique.

While chatting with anyone you've previously met,
you will, of course, use Tracking to win their vote or
heart and all the techniques in Part Two to ensure the
conversation is interesting for your new acquaintance.
Finally, you'll employ Eyeball Selling to make sure
you're on target with every conversation. And don't
forget, as you say "so long," to scribble material for
your next contact on your Business Card Dossier.

It's a good feeling when you've done it all right.
Continue using these techniques politicians use to work
a room, and you'll suffer no more unimportant parties.
And, following the advice throughout the book, you'll
never strike anyone as an unimportant person.

Now we move on to the advanced section of How to
Talk to Anyone. Some of the following techniques may
make you scratch your head in confusion. Pay special
attention to the ones that do because it means
somewhere, sometime, you might find yourself
scratching your head over something much more
painful—like the bump from hitting a glass ceiling, or
why the business deal, friendship, or love affair went
sour. You might never know, unless you read it here,
that it was your own communications fumble.
PART NINE

HOW TO BREAK THE MOST
TREACHEROUS GLASS
CEILING OF ALL

Sometimes People Are Tigers

Every week, when I was a kid, my mother took me to
the National Geographic Society to see a film. The one
on tigers invades my nightmares these many years later.
Sitting there in the darkened theater, I watched a mother
give birth to three tiny cubs. One was born with a
mangled leg. I witnessed how all the other tiger cubs
excluded him. And right there in front of the cameras,
he was tortured to death by the others. I remember
crying and thinking how the healthy cubs were like a
few of the kids in my school. Sometimes they could be
very cruel.

My best friend in grade school was Stella and she
was a beautiful girl inside and out. But she had a speech
defect, a cleft palate. And many of our classmates
laughed at her behind her back and excluded her from
their games.

Kids haven't changed much. When I give talks for
colleges and young people's groups, the discussion
often turns to popularity. Everyone wants to be liked.
Occasionally students tell me stories about how some
girl has a minor physical defect, say, a crossed eye or a
nervous twitch. They say some kids laugh and make fun
of her. Or a boy has a limp so no one chooses him for

Ds)
their baseball team. Even if he can run just as fast as the
other kids, some of his classmates don't like the image
of "a cripple" being on their side.

The years go by and kids become adults. Not too
much changes. Adults are not as cruel, happily, about
physical disabilities. But they can be brutal about social
disabilities. Social disabilities are insidious because
often we don't recognize them in ourselves. We can be
blind to our social handicaps and deaf to our verbal
deficiencies. But we're quick to recognize them in
others.

How many times has one of your associates made a
dumb, insensitive gaffe? How often have you written
somebody off because of some stupid move? Do you
think he knew what he was doing? Of course not. He
had no idea he was crossing a line or stepping on your
toes. Probably no one ever told him about the subtleties
we're going to discuss in this final section of How to
Talk to Anyone.

We've all heard about the glass ceiling some
companies construct over women and minorities.
People seldom discuss another kind of glass ceiling.
This one is even more treacherous because you can't
legislate against it and only top communicators
recognize it. Yet it's a rock-hard shield. Many bright
individuals hit their heads on the thick glass as they try
to climb up the next rung of the ladder to join the big
boys and big girls on top. The folks able to crash
through are the ones who abide by the unspoken rules
that follow.

Consider each of the following techniques. If you
find any of them obvious, give yourself a pat on the

@ AQ

back. It means you're already a tiger on that one. Be on
the lookout for those communications sensitivities
where you find yourself saying, "You gotta be kidding!
What's wrong with that?"

Watch out! It means someday, somewhere, you might
commit that particular insensitivity. Then, when a big
winner responds coolly to your suggestion, doesn't
return your phone call, doesn't give you the promotion,
doesn't invite you to the party, doesn't accept your date,
you'll never know what happened. Read each of the
following techniques to ensure you're not making any of
these subtle mistakes, that let the big players lacerate
you and keep you from getting what you want in life.

yy)

a 7.
78 How to Win Their
Affection by Overlooking
Their Bloopers

One remarkable reaction opened my eyes to yet another
difference between big winners and little losers. Several
years ago I was doing a project for a client. I had the
pleasure of being taken to lunch by the four biggest fish
in the firm. They wanted to familiarize me with
communications problems their company was
experiencing.

We went to a busy midtown restaurant at peak
lunchtime. Every table was filled with a variety of
corporate creatures. Upper-and middle-management
types were lunching in their suits and ties or high-collar
blouses. Workers and secretaries were munching in their
blue shirts or short skirts. The restaurant was buzzing
with conversation and conviviality.

Over the entrée, we were in deep discussion about
the company's challenges. The CFO, Mr. Wilson, was
talking about the financial outlook when suddenly,
BLAM! Not six feet away, a waiter dropped a tray full
of dishes. Glasses broke, silverware clattered against the
marble floor, and a hot baked potato rolled under our
table in a direct path for Wilson's feet.

Practically everyone in the restaurant turned toward
the humiliated waiter. We heard a cacophony of "Uh-
oh," "Butterfingers!" "Whoops, watch it!" "Boy, that's

Ds)
his last lunch here," and a variety of tittering and
derisive laughter.

Wilson, however, didn't miss a word of his
monologue. Not one big player at my table turned or
blinked an eye. It was as though nothing had happened.
The restaurant gradually quieted down around us as we
continued our deliberations. (A few minutes later the
baked potato shot back out from under our table. At that
moment, I found myself wondering whether Wilson had
been a soccer player in his youth.)

Over coffee, the director of marketing, Ms. Dawson,
was discussing the company's planned expansion.
Suddenly she made an expansive gesture with her arms
that knocked over her coffee cup. Just as I was about to
say, "Oh dear," I bit my tongue. Before I could grab my
napkin to help, Dawson was dabbing the muddy puddle
with hers, and not missing a syllable of her soliloquy.
None of her cool colleagues at the table even seemed to
notice the overturned cup.

At that instant, I realized big boys and big girls see
no bloopers, hear no bloopers. They never say
"Butterfingers" or "Whoops" or even "Uh-oh." They
ignore their colleagues' boners. They simply don't
notice their comrades' minor spills, slips, fumbles, and
blunders. Thus, the technique "See No Bloopers, Hear
No Bloopers" was born.

Let Me Suffer in Your Silence

I have one friend who every time I sneeze says, "Oh,
are you coming down with a cold?" Every time I miss a
step on a curb, it's "Be careful!" Every time he sees me

@ AQ

after a long day's work he asks, "Are you tired?"
Granted, this is small fry in the great bouillabaisse of
bloopers. And the poor guy probably genuinely thinks
he's being sensitive to my needs. But, darn it, coming
down with a cold, missing the curb, and looking tired
are less than cool. Let me suffer—in YOUR silence.

If you're having dinner with a friend and she makes a
boner, be blind to her overturned glass. Be deaf to her
sneeze, cough, or hiccups. No matter how well-meaning
your "gesundheit," "Whoops," or knowing smile,
nobody likes to be reminded of their own human frailty.

"Fine," you say, "for small slips, but what should one
do in extreme circumstances?" Say a rippling tide of
soda is flooding across the table in your direction and it
will be impossible to ignore by the time it reaches your
lap.

If possible, deftly flip your napkin to obstruct the
current and keep talking. Try not to miss a syllable of
the sentence you started before the oncoming tide. At
this point, your companion might mutter incoherent
apologies. Adroitly weave a parenthetical "It's nothing"
into your current phrase and continue talking. On such
small sands the castles of big cat camaraderie are built.

TECHNIQUE #78
SEE NO BLOOPERS, HEAR NO BLOOPERS

Cool communicators allow their friends, associates,
acquaintances, and loved ones the pleasurable myth
of being above commonplace bloopers and

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
embarrassing biological functions. They simply
don't notice their comrades' minor spills, slips,
fumbles, and faux pas. They obviously ignore
raspberries and all other signs of human frailty in
their fellow mortals. Big winners never gape at
another's gaffes.

If people hate to be reminded of the moments when
they're not shining, there is another event almost as
disillusioning. It is when a talker is shining and the
spotlight abruptly pivots to a more urgent matter. The
speaker is forgotten in the flurry.

Top communicators put the glow back in the gloomy
gabber's eyes with the technique that follows.

@ AQ

79 How to Win Their Heart
When Their Tongue Is
Faltering

In ancient Japan, if you saved someone's life, it was
their self-imposed task to spend the rest of their life
serving you. Nowadays, if you rescue someone's story, a
molecule of that ancient instinct still gushes through his
or her veins.

It happens all the time. Someone in a group is telling
a story and, just before their big point, BOOM! There's
an interruption. Someone new joins the group, a
catering person with a tray of crackers and cheese
comes over, or a baby starts crying. Suddenly
everyone's attention turns to the new arrival, the nibbles
on the tray, or the "adorable" little tyke. Nobody is
aware of the interruption—except the speaker. They
forget all about the fact that the speaker hasn't made his
or her point.

Or you're all sitting around the living room and
someone is telling a joke. Suddenly, just before their big
punch line, little Johnny drops a dish or the phone rings.
After the crash, everyone talks about little Johnny's
clumsiness. After the call, the subject turns to the
impending marriage or medical operation of the caller.
Nobody remembers the great punch line got aborted—
except the joke teller. (When it's you regaling everyone
at a restaurant, have you ever noticed how you can

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
almost set your clock by the waiter coming to take
everyone's order just before your hilarious punch line?)

Most joke and story tellers are too timid to say, after
the invasion, "Now, as I was saying . . ." Instead, they'll
spend the rest of the evening feeling miserable they
didn't get to finish. Here's where you come in. Rescue
them with the technique I call "Lend a Helping
Tongue."

Watch the gratitude in the storyteller's eyes as he
stabilizes where his story sunk and he sails off again
toward the center of attention. His expression and the
recognition of your sensitivity by the rest of the group
are often reward enough. You are even more fortunate if
you can rescue the story of someone who can hire you,
promote you, buy from you, or otherwise lift your life.
Big winners have elephantine memories. When you do
them subtle favors like Lend a Helping Tongue, they
find a way to pay you back.

TECHNIQUE #79
LEND A HELPING TONGUE

Whenever someone's story is aborted, let the
interruption play itself out. Give everyone time to
dote on the little darling, give their dinner order, or
pick up the jagged pieces of china.

Then, when the group reassembles, simply say to
the person who suffered story-interruptus, "Now
please get back to your story." Or better yet,
remember where they were and then ask, "So what

@ AQ

happened after the .
words).

. ." (and fill in the last few

Harvey Mackay, the world's most notable networker
who rose from envelope salesman to corporate CEO
and one of America's most sought-after business and
motivational speakers, teaches us that the world goes
‘round on favors. How right he is! The next three
techniques reveal unspoken subtleties of this critical
balance of power.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
80 How to Let 'Em Know
"What's In It" for Them

Savvy businesspeople know everyone is constantly
tuned to the same radio station—WIIFM. Whenever
anyone says anything, the listener's instinctive reaction
is "what's in it for me?" Sales pros have elevated this
constant query to the exalted status of acronym,
WIIFM. They pay such strict attention to the WIIFM
principle that they don't open their pitch with the
features of their product or service. Top pros start by
highlighting the benefits to the buyer.

Except for tactical reasons during sensitive
negotiating, big winners lay both "what's in it for me?"
and "what's in it for you?" (WIIFY) right out on the
table. This is so critical that, if one camouflages WIUFM
or WIIFY, the concealer is relegated to the status of
little loser.

I once invited a casual acquaintance to lunch. I had
hoped to consult with Sam, the head of a marketing
association, on my speaking business. I told him my
desire and jokingly asked if an hour of his valuable time
was available in return for lunch at a great restaurant.
That was my way of saying, "Look Sam, I know there's
no real benefit to you except a tasty lunch and the
dubious pleasure of my company." (In other words, I
was revealing WIIFY.) To make the meeting even more
convenient for him, I said, "Sam, choose the date and
the best restaurant in your neighborhood."

Ds)
The day of our lunch consultation rolled around and I
traveled forty-five minutes across town to his chosen
restaurant. As I entered, I was surprised to see an
assortment of people arranged around the largest table
in the room with Sam as the smiling centerpiece.
Obviously, this was not the setting in which I could
consult with him. Unfortunately, Sam had already
spotted me by the coat check. I was trapped.

It wasn't until after-lunch coffee arrived that I
realized why Sam had assembled the group. He wanted
each to donate presentations on their particular expertise
to his organization. The sly fox hadn't revealed his own
"what's in it for me?"

Had Sam been a straight shooter and big player, he
would have told me on the phone, "Leil, I'm getting a
group of speakers who might be helpful to my
organization together for a Dutch-treat lunch. I will, of
course, try to answer your questions about your
speaking business, but we will be a group of ten. Would
you like to join us, or shall we choose another date
when we can have more privacy?"

I would gladly have spoken pro bono for Sam's group
had he been up-front about it. Instead, by not revealing
WIIFM, we both lost. I lost a half day and, because of
his trickiness, he lost my free speech for his group.

Don't Deny Them the Pleasure of
Helping You
Big winners also lay their cards on the table when

asking someone for a favor. Many well-meaning folks
are embarrassed to say how important the favor is to

@ AQ

them. So they ask as though it's a casual inquiry when
it's not.

A friend of mine named Stefan once asked me if I
knew any bands his organization could hire for their
annual event. I told him "No, I'm sorry. I really don't."
But Stefan didn't let it go at that. He pressed, "Leil,
didn't you once work with bands on ships?"

I told him "Yes, but I no longer have contact with
them." I thought that was the end of it. But Stefan
didn't. He grilled me further and I found myself getting
confused and irritated. Finally I said, "Stefan, who's in
charge of getting the band?"

He sheepishly said, "I am."

"Criminy jicketts, Stefan, why didn't you tell me it
was your responsibility? In that case, let me do some
research and see if I can find a good one for you." I was
happy to do my friend a favor. But Stefan, by not telling
me how important it was to him, risked not getting help.
He also went down a notch or two in his friend's esteem
by not revealing WIIFM.

When asking someone for a favor, let them know
how much it means to you. You come across as a
straight shooter, and the joy of helping you out is often
reward enough. Don't deny them that pleasure!

TECHNIQUE #80
BARE THE BURIED WIIFM (AND WIIFY)

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
Whenever you suggest a meeting or ask a favor,
divulge the respective benefits. Reveal what's in it
for you and what's in it for the other person—even if
it's zip. If any hidden agenda comes up later, you get
labeled a sly fox.

Asking or granting favors is a fabric that holds
together only when woven with utmost sensitivity. Let
us explore more ways to stitch this delicate cloth so
your relationship doesn't rip.

@ AQ

81 How to Make Them Want
to Do Favors for You

One of my clients, Susan Evans, heads up a large real
estate firm. Once, sitting in her office discussing an
upcoming project, her secretary buzzed. "Excuse me,
Ms. Evans, it's your brother-in-law Harry on the
phone."

"Oh, of course," she smiled, "put him on." My client,
making apologies for the interruption, picked up the
phone. I left the room for a few moments to give her
privacy.

When I returned, Susan was just hanging up, saying,
"Sure, have him phone me." She told me the call was
from her brother-in-law whose young cousin worked in
a gas station but was interested in a career in real estate.
"The young man is going to call me and I'll see if I can
help him out." It was obvious she was happy to do her
brother-in-law a favor. We picked up our discussion
where we left off.

Not four minutes later, the secretary buzzed again.
"Ms. Evans, a Sonny Laker is on the line. He says he's
your brother-in-law Harry's cousin and he's supposed to
call you." My client was taken aback. I could tell from
her expression she was saying to herself, "Boy, my
overanxious brother-in-law didn't waste any time, did
he?" It seemed obvious to both of us what had
happened. Like greased lightning, Harry must have hot-
breathedly called Cousin Sonny to give him the big

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
headline: Evans Would See Him! Then, by dialing Ms.
Evans immediately, Sonny made it seem the big-deal
interview was the most important event in his otherwise
dull and dismal life.

True or not, one verity remained—Little Cousin was
insensitive to an unspoken rule big winners always
obey: don't jump immediately when someone is doing
you a favor. Allow the person granting the favor time to
savor the pleasure of agreeing to it, before having to pay
up.

Both brother-in-law and potential employee slipped
in Evans's estimate, all because of timing. To ensure the
kid wouldn't call his real-estate-mogul sister-in-law too
quickly, Harry should have waited a day before telling
his cousin the good news. Also, young Sonny should
have asked Cousin Harry about Evans's schedule.
Sometimes an immediate call is advantageous but not
when someone is granting you a favor.

TECHNIQUE #81
LET 'EM SAVOR THE FAVOR

Whenever a friend agrees to a favor, allow your
generous buddy time to relish the joy of his or her
beneficence before you make them pay the piper.

How long? At least twenty-four hours.
One might think Evans was unfair judging Sonny

harshly just because he didn't let her savor the favor. It
runs deeper than that. Evans's subconscious thought

@ AQ

process goes something like this: "If this kid is
insensitive to the subtleties of timing when getting a
job, how sensitive is he going to be when negotiating
the sale of a house?" One agent's overanxious call to an
owner can mean thousands lost in commissions for the
firm.

Big winners have supernatural vision into your
future. They see every communications blunder you
make as a visible blotch on your x-ray. It dims your
prognosis for being successful in life.

Let's look at yet another tenuous thread between
favor asker and favor grantor that must not be severed
lest the relationship unravel.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
82 How to Ask for Favors
(and Get Them!)

I once asked a well-connected friend who works in a
top Los Angeles talent agency if she knew any
celebrities I could contact for a project I was working
on. Tania flipped though her Rolodex and came up with
just the names I needed. It was obvious to both of us, I
owed her big time.

When I thanked her profusely on the phone, Tania
said, "Oh I'm sure you'll find a way to pay me back."

"Well, of course I will," I said. "That goes without
saying." And well it should have gone without saying.
She was reminding me the favor wasn't out of
friendship, but because she expected something in
return.

Two days later, Tania called and said she was coming
to New York in a few months. She was just checking
now if I could put her up then. Naturally I could, but
blatantly cashing in on the return favor so quickly was
not a smooth move. When someone does something
nice for you, you find yourself with an elephant's
memory. In fact, you consciously look for ways to
return the favor. Had Tania called, even years later, of
course I would have remembered "I owed her one."
Frankly, I was glad it came up so quickly so I could
even the score. Nevertheless, I do wish the whole barter
aspect had been left unspoken. It tarnished what should

Ds)
have been a generous sharing on both sides. Tarnish
always wears off on the tarnisher.

When you do someone a favor and they obviously
"owe you one," wait a few weeks. Don't make it look
like tit for tat. Allow the favor asker the pleasurable
myth that you joyfully did the favor with no thought of
what you're going to get in return. They know that's not
true. You know that's not true. But only little losers
make it obvious.

TECHNIQUE #82
TIT FOR (WAIT ... WAIT) TAT

When you do someone a favor and it's obvious that
"he owes you one," wait a suitable amount of time
before asking him to "pay." Let him enjoy the fact
(or fiction) that you did it out of friendship. Don't
call in your tit for their tat too swiftly.

The next three techniques also involve timing, not of
favors, but of important discussions.

@ AQ

83 How to Know What Not
to Say at Parties

When police were hot on the tail of a thief in ancient
times, he'd frantically seek a church to duck into. The
crook knew if he could get to an altar, the frustrated
posse could not arrest him until he came out.

When a pack of wolves in the jungle is in hot pursuit
of a jackrabbit, the frightened bunny's eyes seek a
hollow log. He knows the wolves can't devour him until
he emerges.

Likewise in the human jungle, big cats have certain
safe havens. Although unspoken, they are as secure as
the tenth-century altar or a hole in the log. At clearly
understood times and places, even the toughest tiger
knows he must not attack. I call these "safe havens."

I have a friend, Kirstin, the president of an
advertising agency who each year invites me to her
company's Christmas party. One year, the holiday spirit
was in extra-high swing. Conviviality was high and
champagne flowed freely. It was a terrific bash.

The evening wore on, more bubbly flowed, and the
decibel level of the holiday revelers went up and up. So
high, in fact, that Kirstin told me she was going to tiptoe
out the back door and offered to drop me off at my
place.

As we were making our way toward the exit, we
heard a woozy voice in the crowd, "Oh Kirrr-stin, Kirrr-

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
stin!" A mail-room worker, warped with too much
seasonal spirit, wobbled up to her boss and said, "You
know, thish ish a great party, a grr-reat party. But I been
doin' some figuring. If half what it cost went into a
child-care facility for the seven, count 'em, seven
mothers with preschool children who work here . . ."

Kirstin, a top communicator, took Jane's hands in
hers and gave her a big smile. She said, "Jane, you're
obviously excellent at math. You're right, just about half
of what this party cost would indeed pay for the
opening of such a facility. Let's talk about it during
business hours." We then made a swift departure.

On the way back to my place, she let out a big breath
and said, "Whew, I'm glad that's over."

"Didn't you enjoy the party, Kirstin?" I asked.

"Well, sure," she said, "But you never know what's
going to happen. For instance," she said, "that remark
Jane made." She went on to explain management had
already had several meetings about opening a child-care
facility for employees. In fact, plans for turning an
unused storage area into a beautiful nursery were
already in the works. Naively, I asked Kirstin why she
hadn't mentioned that to Jane.

"It wasn't the right time or place." Kirstin had
handled the situation at the party the way any big
winner would—no spoken confrontation now (but
probable silent condemnation later).

Jane, unfortunately, had broken the first unspoken
safe-haven rule, "Parties Are for Pratter." Did Kirstin
chastise Jane? Did she punish her inappropriate
behavior? Not then, of course. Nevertheless, Jane would

@ AQ

probably feel the repercussions a few months down the
pike when it came to promotion time. But by then poor
Jane wouldn't even know why she was passed over.

Will it be because of a one-time overimbibing? Jane
might grumble, "Yes." Jane is wrong. It's simply that
big players can't take the chance that one of their key
people will feel too much holiday spirit at another party
and next time confront an important client.

TECHNIQUE #83
PARTIES ARE FOR PRATTER

There are three sacred safe havens in the human
jungle where even the toughest tiger knows he must
not attack. The first of these is parties.

Parties are for pleasantries and good fellowship,
not for confrontations. Big players, even when
standing next to their enemies at the buffet table,
smile and nod. They leave tough talk for tougher
settings.

Let's move to the second safe haven where big cats
can escape the claws of bigger cats and, they hope, the
growls of lesser ones.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
84 How to Know What Not
to Say at Dinner

Did you ever wonder why business lunches between big
bosses go on interminably long, sometimes well into the
afternoon? Did you ever suspect it's just because they
like to sit, drink, and massage each other on the
company expense account? Perhaps there's an element
of that. But the main reason is because the dining table
is an even more sacred safe haven than a party. Big
boys and big girls realize, whether it's a business dinner,
lunch, or breakfast, breaking bread together is a time
when they must discuss no unpleasant aspects of the
business. After all, tough negotiating can kill your
appetite.

Let's listen in on an average business lunch between
big players. We hear the clanking of glasses as they
consume drinks over convivial conversation. They are
discussing golf, the weather, and making general
observations about the state of the business. During the
main course, the discourse turns to food, the arts,
current affairs, and other nonthreatening subjects.

"Wasted time?" one might ask. Not at all! The big
players are watching each other's moves very carefully,
calculating each other's skills, knowledge, prowess.
Like NFL scouts observing college football practice,
they're determining who's got the right stuff. Big
players know how people handle themselves at a social
occasion is an accurate barometer of their big-business

Ds)
muscle. As they are smiling and laughing at each other's
jokes, they are all making silent critical judgments.

Finally, coffee arrives. At this point one or more of
the biggies gently broaches the business at hand.
Naturally, he or she does it with supposed reluctance,
trying to repress the obvious relief that at last they can
get down to significant stuff. He exudes, "What a shame
such genial company should have to concern itself with
mundane matters like making money."

Only after they have played out this crucial charade
can they discuss business. But no dirty business. The
biggies can brainstorm over coffee. They can discuss
proposals over dessert. They can toss around new ideas
over cordials. They can explore the positive side of the
merger, the acquisition, or the partnership while waiting
for the check.

However, should any disagreement,
misunderstanding, or controversial aspect arise, they
must immediately relegate it to another table, the
conference table.

TECHNIQUE #84
DINNER'S FOR DINING

The most guarded safe haven respected by big
winners is the dining table. Breaking bread together
is a time when they bring up no unpleasant matters.
While eating, they know it's OK to brainstorm and
discuss the positive side of the business: their
dreams, their desires, their designs. They can free

@ AQ

associate and come up with new ideas. But no tough
business.

This convention probably arose out of a prudent
agreement not to inflict indigestion on each other.
Tough negotiating is unpalatable and can ruin an
otherwise perfectly mouthwatering veal chop.

Incidentally, the same rule applies in the social
jungle. If one partner in a friendship or a love
relationship has some heavy relationship issues to
discuss, save them for after dessert. Even if you don't
solve the problem, you want to enjoy the delicious
chocolate souffle.

Let's crawl into our third and final safe haven to
explore it.

Ds)

|. oououauauauoioiio
85 How to Know What Not
to Say in a Chance
Meeting

William, who sells widgets, has been trying to get Big
Winner on the phone for weeks to see if B.W.'s
company will buy his line of widgets. Big Winner is
still considering Willie's widgets and plans eventually to
return his call. However, at this point in our story, our
little hero's phone has not rung.

It just so happens, one evening Willie finds himself
standing behind Big Winner in the supermarket line.

"What good fortune!" thinks Willie.

"Oh hell!" thinks Big Winner. "I hope he's not going
to hit me with talk of his widgets at this hour."

Those who appreciate safe havens know there are
two very different endings to this story. The Willie who
brings up widgets with an "Aha, I've got you now"
gleam in his eye, never gets his call returned. Even if
Big Winner preferred Willie's widgets above all others,
he would find the supermarket entrapment sufficiently
painful to punish the little loser.

However, the Willie who just says "Hello there, B.W.
How good to see you," with nary a word of widgets,
shows he's a big player, too. This Willie will most
certainly get his call returned—probably the next day—
out of Big Winner's relief and gratitude for Willie's
graciousness.

Ds)
TECHNIQUE #85

CHANCE ENCOUNTERS ARE FOR
CHITCHAT

If you're selling, negotiating, or in any sensitive
communication with someone, do NOT capitalize on
a chance meeting. Keep the melody of your
mistaken meeting sweet and light. Otherwise, it
could turn into your swan song with Big Winner.

Consistently create safe havens for people if you
want them to elevate you to the status of big winner.
You may find yourself dining with them, going to
parties with them, getting big "hellos" in the hall, and
closing deals much faster than during business hours.
Who knows? If it's your desire, you even make yourself
eligible for some heavy socializing at the top. Big
winners make it safe for each other to accept invitations
to play golf, spend the weekend in their country homes,
or relax by each other's pools. They know there will be
no sharks swimming in the water, no razor blades
buried in the shrimp cocktail.

86 How to Prepare Them to
Listen to You

Once night, several years ago on a New York City
street, I caught a man trying to break into a car. I
shouted for him to stop. Instead of being content
escaping, the burly would-be burglar decided to
retaliate. As he raced past me, he shoved me down onto
the cement and I cracked my skull against the curb.

Dizzily, I wobbled into the emergency room of a
nearby hospital. Holding an ice pack against my
throbbing head, I was grilled by the emergency room
triage nurse on my address, telephone, and social
security numbers, insurance carrier, policy number, ad
nauseam. It's as if she had said, "The heck with your
cracked skull. You can tell me about that later. What's
your insurance number?"

Don't bother me with that minutiae! All I wanted to
do was tell somebody, anybody, what happened to me.
It wasn't until the very end of her ruthless and sadistic
interrogation that she asked, "So what happened?"

I later told my sad story to a friend, Sue, a nurse who
works in admitting in another emergency room. She
said, "I know. I can't believe they print the forms that
way. Injured people don't get to tell what happened to
them until the last line of the form. Sue said getting
crucial numerical details from people suffering in the
ER with broken bones and burns was a real challenge.
Until, she said, she switched her questioning around.

Ds)
She'd first ask them what happened. They'd tell her all
about it. She'd listen sympathetically. "Then," she said,
"they were only too happy to give me the information I
needed."

Good bosses understand this human need to talk.
Robert, a colleague of mine who owns a small
manufacturing firm, says whenever one of his
employees complains about a problem, he never holds
the griper's feet to the fire for facts first. He hears the
employee out completely. He lets him carry on about
the cantankerous customer, the uncooperative coworker.
"Then, after he's gotten it off his chest," Robert says, "I
get the facts a lot more clearly."

When You Have Important Information
to Impart

Any kid working in a garage knows you can't pump
more gas into a full tank. Too much topping it off, and it
splashes onto the cement. Likewise, your listener's brain
is always full of his or her own thoughts, worries, and
enthusiasms. If you pump your ideas into your listener's
brain, which is full of her own notions, you'll get a
polluted mixture, then a spill. If you want your
supersupreme ideas to flow into her tank unpolluted,
drain her tank completely first.

TECHNIQUE #86
EMPTY THEIR TANKS

@ AQ

If you need information, let people have their entire
say first. Wait patiently until their needle is on empty
and the last drop drips out and splashes on the
cement. It's the only way to be sure their tank is
empty enough of their own inner noise to start
receiving your ideas.

Whenever you are discussing emotionally charged
matters, let the speaker finish completely before you
jump in. Count to ten if you must. It will seem like an
eternity, but letting the flustered fellow finish is the only
way he'll hear you when it's your turn.

"I'm Going to Make You Miserable
Before You Can Enjoy Being My
Customer"

Companies that run mail-order operations could take a
hint from this technique. One reason I enjoy ordering
from L.L. Bean, a mail-order clothing and sports-
equipment outfit, is they let me ask questions about the
wearable or widget I want first. They let me ramble on
with my questions about the quality, the available
colors, how it looks, how it feels, how it smells, and
how it works. Then, when I'm all whacked up about
receiving my four size-ten, red-and-chartreuse, soft,
odorless widgets, they tastefully ask my credit card
number.

Other companies have first grilled me on the number,
the expiration date, my customer number (which I can
never find on the back of the catalogue), and how often
I've ordered from them in the past before I even get to

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
fantasize about the wonderful widget I might want to
buy from them. Takes all the joy out of the purchase and
sometimes kills the sale.

Top communicators do more than just let you babble
on. They use the next technique while you're in the
process of dribbling down.

@ AQ

87 How to Turn Their Anger
Around (in Three
Sentences or Less)

Emo is a word invented by Helen Gurley Brown, the
grand dame of Cosmopolitan magazine. Emo translated
is "Give more emotion!" Once Cosmopolitan asked me
to write an article on communicating sensitive matters
(most specifically advising young women on how to
make their boyfriends more passionate). I interviewed a
passel of psychologists, communications experts, and
sexologists. My draft came back from Cosmo all
marked up with "MORE EMO" scribbled on every
page.

I called my editor and asked what it meant. She said
that was Helen's way of saying downplay all that factual
stuff with the sex therapists and so-called experts. Write
about the emotion the young woman feels when her
boyfriend isn't passionate enough, the emotion the
accused male feels when confronted, and the emotion
the couple feels about discussing their quandary. Helen
Gurley Brown, a certified big winner, liked to have it all
and knew just how to get it. Helen recognized, when the
time is right, reject the rational and empathize with the
emotions. In other words, smear on the emo.

"Oh, No! He Must Have Been
Mortified!"

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
L.L. Bean recently smeared emo all over me. Several
months ago, my friend Phil wanted to buy some
trousers and asked for a rec-ommendation. I dragged
him to my closet to show him the quality and
construction of the L.L. Bean clothes. That convinced
him, and Phil ordered a pair of navy-blue dress trousers.

Phil wore his brand new L.L. Bean pants for the first
time on a big date with a new girlfriend at an elegant
restaurant. While following the maitre d' to the cozy
corner booth which he'd requested, his date happened to
drop her evening bag. Phil promptly bent over to pick it

Most of the diners facing Phil's derriere mercifully
looked away. A few tittered. Phil, tugging the torn
seams together to blanket his buns, backed his way into
the booth. The cool upholstery on his bottom the rest of
the evening reminded him of his humiliation.

When I heard of Phil's tribulations, I was furious at
L.L. Bean. I immediately called one of their customer
service agents. She sympathized as I told her of Phil's
ordeal, but I was still simmering. She patiently listened
and even asked me details of the disaster. When I
finished the long sad story, the agent said, "Oh that's
terrible. I understand, your friend must have felt awful."

"Yes, he did," I agreed.
"He must have been mortified!" she said.

"He definitely was," I said, surprised at her excellent
grasp of the situation.

"And you, when you heard about it. You must have
felt terrible, too, especially after you'd recommended
our products so highly."

@ AQ

"Well, your products usually are excellent," I said,
calming down a bit.

"I'm so sorry we caused you this pain and
aggravation," she said.

"Oh," I interrupted. "It's not your fault." Now I was
completely appeased. "It must have just been a fluke
that this one pair of pants was..."

TECHNIQUE #87
ECHO THE EMO

Facts speak. Emotions shout. Whenever you need
facts from people about an emotional situation, let
them emote. Hear their facts but empathize like mad
with their emotions. Smearing on the emo is often
the only way to calm their emotional storm.

There's more to this story, but let me pause here to
interject the Echo the Emo technique.

The clever customer service rep not only emptied my
tanks and softened me up with Echo the Emo. She
completely dissolved me with the next technique.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
88 How to Make 'Em Like
You (Even When You've
Messed Up)

The next day, UPS delivered not only the replacement
slacks, but tucked into the package was a handwritten
apology and a hefty gift certificate. Would I order from
that company again? You bet I would. Would I
recommend their clothes to someone else? You bet I
would. Top customer service folks welcome mistakes
because they know it gives their firm a chance to shine.
Whenever you mess up and someone suffers because of
it, make sure they come out ahead, way ahead. I call the
technique "My Goof, Your Gain."

Visiting an important client's office, I once tripped on
a rug and took a nose dive, making a three-point landing
in a vase on her desk. My nose was spared but her vase
shattered into smithereens. Two tubes of crazy glue and
lots of "Where the heck does this piece go" later, the
vase was back on her desk, and we agreed it looked
pretty good. Nevertheless, the next day I had a
messenger deliver a beautiful vase, ten times the value
of the almost-totaled one, with a dozen roses in it.

Whenever we speak, my client tells me every time
she looks at the new vase, she smiles. (A better
"incentive gift" than a pen with your name on it, no?)
The next time I visit her office, my client may hide
some of her more valuable breakables. But, thanks to
My Goof, Your Gain, there will be a next time.

Ds)
TECHNIQUE #88
MY GOOF, YOUR GAIN

Whenever you make a boner, make sure your victim
benefits. It's not enough to correct your mistake. Ask
yourself, "What could I do for this suffering soul so
he or she will be delighted I made the flub?" Then
do it, fast! In that way, your goof will become your
gain.

Now, suppose it's not your boo-boo. It's theirs. How
can you make their goof your gain? Read on.

89 How to Trap a Rat with
Class

In Japan, some citizens prefer to lose their lives rather
than to lose face. In America, the same death wish
exists, with one modification. The Yank dreams of the
death of the mortal who made him lose face.

Why make enemies? Unless it is your obligation to
catch cheaters or entrap liars, let them get away with it.
Then immediately get them out of your life and the
lives you're responsible for. Even when the case is open
and shut against someone—when you've got the rat fink
trapped—leave him an escape hatch.

The best example I heard of this high sensitivity was
from one of my clients. She was invited to brunch at the
home of a _ wealthy socialite known as "Lady
Stephanie." Lady Stephanie's home was filled with
beautiful objets d'art. Not the least among them was an
exquisite collection of extremely valuable Fabergé eggs,
which all the guests admired.

At the end of the elegant champagne brunch, my
client told me she was walking out the door chatting
with several other guests. Just then, Lady Stephanie
sidled up to one woman leaving at the same time as my
client. "Oh, I'm so happy you were admiring my
Fabergé collection," Lady Stephanie said, sliding her
hand into the pocket of the guest's mink coat and
plucking out one of her priceless eggs. "You must have

Ds)
wanted to see this one in the sunlight. Come, let us look
at it together. It does reflect the bright light beautifully."

The mink-clad thief gulped and furtively looked
around to see who had witnessed her gentle entrapment.
My client and everyone in the foyer saw what
happened, but took Lady Stephanie's lead and pretended
naiveté of the attempted heist.

Carrying the charade a step further, Lady Stephanie
and the sticky-fingered guest "admired the egg in the
sunlight." Then Lady Stephanie, with her Fabergé egg
secured safely between her perfectly manicured fingers,
marched home to put the treasure in its rightful place.
The attempted egg snatcher crawled back to her car,
from her last attendance at Lady Stephanie's coveted
bashes. The hostess let the foiled filcher get away with a
few slivered shreds of her ego left intact.

Why did Lady Stephanie come out ahead? Everyone
who witnessed—and subsequently heard about—the
thwarted burglary has renewed respect for Lady
Stephanie. Snaring the thief, yet sparing her pride,
helped Lady Stephanie keep her reputation of "hostess
with the mostest."

Why do big winners let bad-news people get away
with bummers? Because, like mothers confronting
naughty children to correct them, confronting creeps is
a way of saying "I care." By closing your mouth (and
then the door forever), you are saying, "You are so
beneath me I'm not going to even waste my words on
you."

"Mea Culpa!"

@ AQ

Big winners leave an escape hatch for the small foibles
of friends they wish to keep by taking the blame
themselves. If a friend gets lost and is an hour late
arriving at your house, tell her "Those directions I gave
you were terrible." He breaks your Limoges bowl? "Oh
I shouldn't have left it in such a precarious position." It's
the old mea culpa routine that endears you to everyone,
especially when they realize it wasn't your fault.

TECHNIQUE #89
LEAVE AN ESCAPE HATCH

Whenever you catch someone lying, filching,
exaggerating, distorting, or deceiving, don't confront
the dirty duck directly. Unless it is your
responsibility to catch or correct the culprit—or
unless you are saving other innocent victims by
doing so—let the transgressor out of your trap with
his tricky puss in one piece. Then resolve never to
gaze upon it again.

Residents of Toronto, Canada, have a well-earned
reputation for grace. They demonstrated it last year in a
downtown Toronto drugstore. A shopper attempted to
stroll out through the security system with a purloined
object in his pocket. Instead of a shrill alarm shattering
all shoppers' eardrums, as in many American cities, a
tasteful little chime sounded. A charming voice came
across the public address. "Excuse us, we have failed to
inactivate the inventory control system. Thank you for
your patience while you wait for a customer care

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
@ AQ

STO OF Op HO

Ds)

representative to come help you." Isn't that a nicer way
of saying "Freeze, punk, while we come frisk you?"

Now let's move on to the next technique to keep 90 How to Get Whatever You
people from messing up—and to help them give you Want from Service
their very best.

Personnel

A complimentary letter is called a "buttercup" because
it butters up the recipient. Buttercups are nice. Even
nicer are buttercups about someone to their boss.

I once needed a massive photocopying job. It was so
immense that the assistant manager of Staples office-
supply store didn't think it could be finished by the end
of the week. Nevertheless, grudgingly, he grumbled,
"T'll try." In my enthusiasm and hope he could, I gushed,
"Wow, you're great! What's your boss's name? Your
supervisor should get a letter of congratulations on
hiring you. You really try harder for your customers."
To my astonishment, not only was my printing job done
two days early, but every time I walk into Staples, the
assistant manager rolls out the red carpet.

"Hmm," I began to think. "I may be on to
something." A premature letter of commendation for
favors not yet received could be a clever tactic. I
decided to check it out with a few heavy hitters on my
consultation list.

One fellow I know, Tim, a top travel agent, is a real
can-do guy. He gets anything his friends ask for in a
finger snap. He's the fellow to call when you want hard-
to-get theater tickets. He's the guy you call when your
airline says the hotel is booked or the flight is oversold.
When I told him of my buttercup experience, Tim
laughed and said, "Leil, of course. This is news to you?
A complimentary letter to someone's boss—or the
promise of one—is a great insurance policy. It's as good
as a written rider that you will be well taken care of in
the future."

Now I have a standard one in my computer. The
buttercup reads as follows:

Dear [name of supervisor],

I know how important customer service
is to an organization such as yours. This
letter is to commend [name of employee].
He/She is an example of an [employee title]
who gives exceptional customer service.
[Name of store or business] continues to
have my business thanks in great part to the
service given by [name of employee].

Gratefully, [signature]

I've sent this letter to supervisors of parking lots,
owners of insurance companies, and to managers of
dozens of stores where I shop regularly. I'm sure that's
why I never need to worry about getting a parking place
when the lot is full, an immediate callback from my
insurance agent, and attentive service at my regular
shopping haunts.

But be careful! Don't just ask, "What's the name of
your supervisor?" Hearing those words can make an
employee as nervous as a turkey in November. Be sure
to couch it in a compliment. Say something like, "Wow,
you are terrific. What's your supervisor's name? I'd like

to write him or her a letter." Then write it! You'll forever
be a VIP in his or her book.

TECHNIQUE #89
BUTTERCUPS FOR THEIR BOSS

Do you have a store clerk, accountant, law firm
junior partner, tailor, auto mechanic, maitre d',
massage therapist, kid's teacher—or any other
worker you want special attention from in the
future? The surefire way to make them care enough
to give you their very best is send a buttercup to
their boss.

The next technique tells you how to stand out as a
VIP when you're in a group.
91 How to Be a Leader in a
Crowd, Not a Follower

During the McCarthy era, government spies infiltrated
underground political rallies to determine who was
"dangerous to national security." The agents were
trained applause watchers. They photographed and
investigated men who clapped first, shouted "Bravo"
the loudest, and smiled the longest at the end of
politically inflammatory speeches. The spies dubbed
those the "dangerous ones." The infiltrators felt first
responders were confident cats who had the power to
persuade followers and the charisma to lead crowds.

In less politically sensitive gatherings, the same
principle applies. People who respond first to a
presentation or happening, without looking around to
see how everyone else is reacting, are men and women
of leadership caliber.

Cool Cats Clap First

You are sitting in an auditorium with hundreds of fellow
employees listening to the president of your firm
introduce a new concept. As _ you're  slouching
anonymously in the audience, you think your
expression is invisible to the man or woman at the
podium. Not so! As a speaker, I guarantee you every
one of my colleagues sees every smile, every frown,
every light in every eye, and every emblem of
extraordinary human intelligence flashing back at him
or her.

Likewise, the company president making a
presentation anxiously surveys his corporate jungle and,
from the pusses peering back at him, senses which
employees are sympathetic and which are not. He also
knows which in the sea of faces floating in front of him
has the potential to be a heavy hitter like himself. How?

Because heavy hitters, even when they do not agree
with the speaker, support the podium pontificator. Why?
Because they know what it's like to be on. They know,
no matter how big or little the cat at the front of the
room is, when giving a speech he's concerned about the
crowd's acceptance.

TECHNIQUE #91
LEAD THE LISTENERS

No matter how prominent the big cat behind the
podium is, crouched inside is a little scaredy-cat
who is anxious about the crowd's acceptance.

Big winners recognize you're a fellow big winner
when they see you leading their listeners in a
positive reaction. Be the first to applaud or publicly
commend the man or woman you agree with (or
want favors from).

When the company big shot delivers his last line,
carefully contrived to bring the crowd to its feet or
employees to acquiescence, do you think he's unaware

@ AQ

of who starts the trickle, or the riptide, of acceptance?
No way! Though his head is down while taking a bow,
with the insight of a McCarthy-era spy, he perceives
precisely who inaugurated the applause, precisely how
long after the last words were uttered, and precisely
how enthusiastically! Being the first to put your hands
together, being the first to jump to your feet, and, if
appropriate, being the first to shout "Bravo," gets you
big cat status with the tiger who was talking.

Be the first clapper no matter how small the crowd,
no matter how informal the talk. Don't wait to see how
everyone else is going to respond. Even if it's a small
group of three or four people standing around, be the
first to empathize with the speaker's ideas, the first to
mutter "good idea." It's proof positive you're a person
who trusts his or her own instincts.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
92 How to Make AIl the
Right Moves

Any minute, any second, football fans know the score.
Even beer-guzzling Big George, dozing in front of the
TV set on football Sunday knows. Poke his pudgy pot,
and in a wink, he'll tell you who's winning, who's
losing, and by precisely how many points.

Key players in the game of life are like George. Even
when you think they're dozing, they are constantly
aware of the score between themselves and everyone in
their life—friends and family included! They know who
is winning, who is losing, and by how many points.

When two Japanese businessmen meet, it's obvious
who is on top. You measure it in millimeters from how
close to the floor their noses come when bowing.
(Bottom man's nose dives lower.)

In America, we don't have carefully choreographed
bows showing the score in a relationship. But boys 'n'
girls in the business big league know who is top dog
and who is bottom dog today. (It can change tomorrow.)

Bottom dog must curtsy deeper. He or she must show
deference. Bottom dog must offer to meet at top dog's
office, pick up the restaurant tab when appropriate, and
be respectful of top dog's time. If bottom dog fails to
show the proper deference, he doesn't get his nose
rubbed into the ground. He simply disqualifies himself
to bark in the big league.

yy)
That's what happened to my girlfriend Laura, who
had developed the healthy milkshake. (Remember her
from Instant Replay?) When we last left Laura, she was
blowing her chances with Fred, the top banana of a
supermarket chain, by grilling him for details of his
mailing address, complaining her pen was out of ink,
making him wait while she got another, writing
numbers down wrong, ad nauseam.

I didn't tell you the worst part. After Fred was
generous enough to invite Laura to send him samples of
her health shake, she dropped another bomb by asking
him which shipping service she should use. He must
have said FedEx because I heard Laura say, "Well, my
milkshake needs to stay refrigerated. Does FedEx have
refrigerated trucks?"

At this point I knew she had strangled the deal by her
own phone chord. She shouldn't nudge Supermarket
Czar with dinky shipping details. In fact, Laura should
be so grateful, she should personally deliver the drink
the next day—rolling it all the way to his supermarket
with her nose if need be. Laura was obviously not aware
of The Great Scorecard in the Sky. That day the tally
was Fred everything, Laura nothing.

Big winners—before putting pen to paper, fingers to
keyboard, mouth to phone, or hand to someone else's to
shake it—do a quick calculation. They ask themselves
"Who has the most to benefit from this relationship?
What has each of us done recently that demands
deference from the other?" And what can I do to even
the score?

Friends Keep Tabs Too

@ AQ

The Great Scorecard in the Sky is not just bobbing over
businesspeople. If family members and friends look
carefully over their loved ones' heads, they'll spot it.
And, like an over-the-counter stock, it goes up or down
every day. When you mess up, you have to even your
score by doing more for the one who didn't. To keep
love alive, keep your eye on The Great Scorecard in the
Sky.

Several months ago, I met a nice chap named Charles
at a convention. We started discussing our favorite
foods. His was homemade linguine with pesto sauce. I
liked Charles and I make a mean pesto sauce. The
remarkable coincidence of these two _ elements
emboldened me to invite him to dinner at my place.
"Great," he said. We set it for seven-thirty the following
Tuesday.

Tuesday afternoon, I begin preparations for the big
date. The cuckoo clock on the wall monitored my
progress. At five cuckoos, I run to the store to find pine
nuts. By six cuckoos, I'm back home grinding basil and
garlic. At seven cuckoos, I'm folding napkins, setting
the table, pulling out fresh candles. Whoops, running
late. I change clothes and spruce myself up. When
seven-thirty strikes, I am all ready. The pesto and I
await his arrival.

Eight o'clock rolls around and no friend. Well, I
figure, I'll open the wine and let it breathe. Another hour
passes and no Charles. The cuckoo calls me "cuckoo"
nine times now. I begin to believe the bird. It is evident
Charles isn't coming. I have been stood up.

The next day Charles called with halfhearted
apologies and a semiplausible excuse. His car broke

yy)

a 7.
down. "Gee, I'm sorry," I said. (I wanted to say, "Did
Martians capture you? Were you transported to another
planet where there were no phones to call me?" I
resisted the sarcasm.) However, he did sound contrite so
I was almost willing to forget it. Until his next question.

He obviously wasn't aware of how he'd slipped in
The Great Scorecard in the Sky because, instead of
inviting me for linguine with pesto at a fine Italian
restaurant to make up for his blooper, he asked, "When
can we reschedule at your house?"

Never, Charlie.

TECHNIQUE #92
THE GREAT SCORECARD IN THE SKY

Any two people have an invisible scorecard
hovering above their heads. The numbers
continually fluctuate, but one rule remains: player
with lower score pays deference to player with
higher score. The penalty for not keeping your eye
on The Great Scorecard in the Sky is to be thrown
out of the game. Permanently.

Your Destiny

We've met many people in How to Talk to Anyone. A
few of their names are changed, but each is very real.
Recently, I decided to track down some of the folks
with whom I'd crossed paths over the years. I wanted to
see what they're up to now.

@ AQ

Laura, my old friend who dreamed of milkshake
millions but ignored the Supermarket Czar's scorecard,
is now back at her day job. Sam, who ruffled me by not
revealing he wanted me to speak for his organization,
no longer has one. Sonny, who hounded his brother-in-
law's cousin by a too-quick call, is still pumping gas.
Tania, who insisted on immediate tit for tat, no longer
has that terrific job at the talent agency. Poor Jane, the
mail-room clerk who confronted her boss at the
Christmas party five years ago, is still wrapping
packages. And Dan, who left the prolonged inspirational
message on his phone, now has an unlisted number—
not a good sign for an aspiring speaker.

Whereas Barry who asks everyone he calls, "What
Color Is Your Time?" was recently chosen Broadcaster
of the Year by the National Association of Talk Show
Hosts. Joe, who keeps note of everyone on his Business
Card Dossier, is now a state senator. Jimmi, the expert
at Eyeball Selling, was recently written up in Success
magazine. Steve, whose staff insinuates "Oh Wow, It's
You!" to every caller, is one of the most requested
speakers on the cable circuit. Tim, the can-do guy who
gets what he wants from workers in every industry by
writing Buttercups for Their Boss, now owns the travel
agency. And Gloria, my hairdresser who gives the great
Nutshell Résumé, recently opened a salon on New
York's fashionable Fifth Avenue.

Does this mean to say that just because the first folks
irked me and a few others they were exiled to a
humdrum existence? And the latter group who made
people smile would attain great heights? Of course not.

Ds)

STO OF Op HO
Those isolated moments of their lives we examined
were but one move of many they made each day.

But consider: if you had been who was ruffled by
Laura, Sam, Sonny, Tania, Jane, or Dan and they called
you, would you feel like extending yourself for them?
Probably not. The memory of their ragged dealing
would still smart.

Whereas if you heard from Barry, Joe, Jimmi, Steve,
Tim, or Gloria, happy memories of your exchange
would flood over you. You'd want to do whatever you
could for them.

Multiply your response by many thousands. As we
said in the introduction, nobody gets to the top alone.
Over the years, the smooth moves of these big winners
have captured the hearts and conquered the minds of
hundreds of people who helped boost them rung by
rung to the top of whatever ladder they chose.

How does one become an instinctive smooth mover
rather than a ragged rider through life? The answer
became blindingly clear one snowy day last winter.
Lumbering along a neatly groomed track on cross-
country skis, I spotted a Nordic skier swiftly striding
toward me in the same trail. I didn't need to observe his
high kick or his snazzy diagonal poling to let me know I
was obstructing the path of a pro.

While mustering the energy to lug my throbbing legs
out of the track so Super Skier could soar past, he deftly
sidestepped out of the groove, leaving the groomed trail
all for me. As he whizzed toward me, he slowed
slightly, smiled, nodded, and said, "Good morning,
beautiful day for skiing, isn't it?"

@ AQ

I appreciated his deference (and insinuation that we
were equals on the snow!). I knew he was not thinking
"Hey look at me. Here I am!" but "Ahh, there you are.
Let me make room for you."

As I implied in the opening words of this book, the
difference in the life success between those two types of
thinkers is incalculable.

Why was Super Skier able to pull off his move so
gracefully? Was he born with the skill? No. His was a
deliberate move that grew out of practice.

Practice is also the fountainhead of all smooth
communications moves. Excellence is not a single and
solitary action. It is the outcome of many years of
making small smooth moves, tiny ones like the ninety-
two little tricks we've explored in How to Talk to
Anyone. These moves create your destiny.

Remember, repeating an action makes a habit.
Your habits create your character.
And your character is your destiny.

May success be your destiny.

yy)

a 7.
Notes

1. Ekman, Paul. 1985. Telling Lies: Clues to Deceit
in the Marketplace, Politics, and Marriage. New York:
W. W. Norton Co., Inc.

2. Cheng, Sha, et al. 1990. "Effects of Personality
Type on Stress Response." Acta-Psychologica-Sinica
22(2):197-204.

3. Carnegie, Dale. 1936. How to Win Friends and
Influence People. New York: Simon & Schuster.

4. Goleman, Daniel. 1989. "Brain's Design Emerges
as a Key to Emotions," quoting Dr. Joseph LeDoux,
psychologist at Center for Neural Science at New York
University. New York Times, August 15.

5. Kellerman, Joan, et al. 1989. "Looking and
Loving: The Effects of Mutual Gaze on Feelings of
Romantic Love." Conducted at the Agoraphobia
Treatment & Research Center of New England. Journal
of Research in Personality 23(2):145—161.

6. Argyle, Michael. 1967. The Psychology of
Interpersonal Behavior. Baltimore: Pelican
Publications.

7. Wellens, A. Rodney. 1987. "Heart-Rate Changes
in Response to Shifts in Interpersonal Gaze from Liked
and Disliked Others." Perceptual and Motor Skills
64(2):595—598.

yy)
8. Ibid.

9. Zig Ziglar, motivational teacher and author of the
bestselling books See You at the Top, Secrets of Closing
the Sale, Over the Top, and Something to Smile About.

10. Curtis, Rebecca C., and Miller, Kim. 1986.
"Believing Another Likes or Dislikes You: Behaviors
Making the Beliefs Come True." Journal of Personality
and Social Psychology51(2):284—290.

11. Hayakawa, S. I. 1941. Language in Thought and
Action. New York: Harcourt Brace Jovanovich.

12. Aronson, E., et al. 1966. "The Effect of a Pratfall
on Increasing Interpersonal Attractiveness."
Psychonomic Science4:227-228.

13. Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching and Carnegie Institute of Technology studies
in the 1930s showing that 85 percent of one's financial
success, even in technical fields such as engineering, is
due to communications skills.

14. U.S. Census Bureau of Hiring, Training, and
Management Practices conducted a survey of 3,000
employers nationwide. The preferred qualities in job
candidates were, rated in order of importance, attitude,
communications skills, previous work experience,
recommendations from current employer,
recommendations from previous employer, industry-
based credentials, years of schooling completed, score
on interview tests, academic performance (grades),

@ AQ

reputation of applicant's school, teacher

recommendations.

15. Walsh, Debra G., and Hewitt, Jay. 1985. "Giving
Men the Come-On: Effect of Eye Contact and Smiling
in a Bar Environment." Perceptual and Motor Skills
61(3, Part 1): 873-874.

16. Walters, Lilly. 1995. What to Say When You're
Dying on the Platform. New York: McGraw-Hill.

17. Axtell, Roger. 1994. Do's and Taboos Around the
World. New York: John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

18. Bosrock, Mary. 1997. Put Your Best Foot
Forward series. Minneapolis: International Education
Systems.

19. Nwanna, Gladson. 1998. Do's and Don'ts Around
the World series. Baltimore: World Travel Institute.

20. Byrne, Donn, et al. 1970. "Continuity Between
the Experimental Study of Attraction and Real-Life
Computer Dating." Journal of Personality and Social
Psychology 1:157-16S.

21. Fast, Julius. 1970. Body Language. New York:
Simon & Schuster.

22. Fast, Julius. 1991. Subtext: Making Body
Language Work in the Workplace. New York: Viking.

23. Lewis, David. 1989. The Secret Language of
Success. New York: Carroll & Graf Publishers, Inc.

yy)

a 7.
24. Nierenberg, Gerard, and Caliero, Henry. 1993.
How to Read a Person Like a Book. New York: Barnes
& Noble Books.

25. Pease, Allan. 1981. Signals: How to Use Body
Language for Power, Success and Love. New York:
Bantam Books.

26. Sannito, Thomas, and McGovern, Peter J., 1985.
Courtroom Psychology for Trial Lawyers. New York:
John Wiley & Sons, Inc.

@ AQ

About the Author

Leil Lowndes is an _ internationally acclaimed
communications expert who coaches top executives of
Fortune 500 companies as well as frontline employees
to become more effective communicators. She has
spoken in pratically every major U.S. city and conducts
communications seminars for the U.S. Peace Corps,
foreign governments, and major corporations. In
addition to engrossing audiences on hundreds of TV and
radio shows, her work has been acclaimed by the New
York Times, the Chicago Tribune, and Time magazine.
Her articles have appeared in professional journals and
popular publications such as Redbook, New Woman,
Psychology Today, Penthouse, and Cosmopolitan.
Based in New York City, she is the author of many
books including the topselling How to Make Anyone
Fall in Love with You and How to Be a People Magnet.

If you come across any communications techniques,
send them to Leil—so she can share them with others.
She would love to hear from you. Her E-mail address is
leil@peoplemagnet.com.

Would you like more communications techniques
from Leil? Sign up for her complimentary monthly
communications hint. Go to lowndes.com and click on
"Subscribe."

yy)

a 7.
24. Nierenberg, Gerard, and Caliero, Henry. 1993.
How to Read a Person Like a Book. New York: Barnes About the Author
& Noble Books.

How to Talk to Anyone

Leil Lowndes

“You'll not only break the ice, you'll NYONE
melt it away with your new skills.”
— Larry King

“The lost art of verbal communication may be
revitalized by Leil Lowndes.” — Harvey McKay,
author of “How to Swim with the Sharks Without
Being Eaten Alive”

What is that magic quality makes some people
instantly loved and respected? Everyone wants to
be their friend (or, if single, their lover!) In
business, they rise swiftly to the top of the
corporate ladder. What is their “Midas touch?”

What it boils down to is a more skillful way of
dealing with people.

The author has spent her career teaching people
how to communicate for success. In her book How
to Talk to Anyone (Contemporary Books, October
2003) Lowndes offers 92 easy and effective sure-
fire success techniques — she takes the reader from
first meeting all the way up to sophisticated
techniques used by the big winners in life. In this
information-packed book you'll find:

¢ 9 ways to make a dynamite first impression
¢ 14 ways to master small talk, “big talk,” and
body language
24. Nierenberg, Gerard, and Caliero, Henry. 1993.
How to Read a Person Like a Book. New York: Barnes About the Author
& Noble Books.

~

How to Talk to Anyone

Leil Lowndes

“You'll not only break the ice, you'll NYONE
melt it away with your new skills.”
— Larry King

“The lost art of verbal communication may be
revitalized by Leil Lowndes.” — Harvey McKay,
author of “How to Swim with the Sharks Without
Being Eaten Alive”

What is that magic quality makes some people
instantly loved and respected? Everyone wants to
be their friend (or, if single, their lover!) In
business, they rise swiftly to the top of the
corporate ladder. What is their “Midas touch?”

What it boils down to is a more skillful way of
dealing with people.

The author has spent her career teaching people
how to communicate for success. In her book How
to Talk to Anyone (Contemporary Books, October
2003) Lowndes offers 92 easy and effective sure-
fire success techniques — she takes the reader from
first meeting all the way up to sophisticated
techniques used by the big winners in life. In this
information-packed book you'll find:

¢ 9 ways to make a dynamite first impression
¢ 14 ways to master small talk, “big talk,” and
body language
24. Nierenberg, Gerard, and Caliero, Henry. 1993.
How to Read a Person Like a Book. New York: Barnes About the Author
& Noble Books.

~

How to Talk to Anyone

Leil Lowndes

“You'll not only break the ice, you'll NYONE
melt it away with your new skills.”
— Larry King

“The lost art of verbal communication may be
revitalized by Leil Lowndes.” — Harvey McKay,
author of “How to Swim with the Sharks Without
Being Eaten Alive”

What is that magic quality makes some people
instantly loved and respected? Everyone wants to
be their friend (or, if single, their lover!) In
business, they rise swiftly to the top of the
corporate ladder. What is their “Midas touch?”

What it boils down to is a more skillful way of
dealing with people.

The author has spent her career teaching people
how to communicate for success. In her book How
to Talk to Anyone (Contemporary Books, October
2003) Lowndes offers 92 easy and effective sure-
fire success techniques — she takes the reader from
first meeting all the way up to sophisticated
techniques used by the big winners in life. In this
information-packed book you'll find:

¢ 9 ways to make a dynamite first impression
¢ 14 ways to master small talk, “big talk,” and

Em body language
24. Nierenberg, Gerard, and Caliero, Henry. 1993.
How to Read a Person Like a Book. New York: Barnes About the Author
& Noble Books.

~

How to Talk to Anyone

Leil Lowndes

“You'll not only break the ice, you'll NYONE
melt it away with your new skills.”
— Larry King

“The lost art of verbal communication may be
revitalized by Leil Lowndes.” — Harvey McKay,
author of “How to Swim with the Sharks Without
Being Eaten Alive”

What is that magic quality makes some people
instantly loved and respected? Everyone wants to
be their friend (or, if single, their lover!) In
business, they rise swiftly to the top of the
corporate ladder. What is their “Midas touch?”

What it boils down to is a more skillful way of
dealing with people.

The author has spent her career teaching people
how to communicate for success. In her book How
to Talk to Anyone (Contemporary Books, October
2003) Lowndes offers 92 easy and effective sure-
fire success techniques — she takes the reader from
first meeting all the way up to sophisticated
techniques used by the big winners in life. In this
information-packed book you'll find:

¢ 9 ways to make a dynamite first impression
¢ 14 ways to master small talk, “big talk,” and
body language
